= Architecture overview[[_architecture_overview]]

include::../attributes.adoc[]

The OWASP Juice Shop is a pure web application implemented in JavaScript
and TypeScript (which is compiled into regular JavaScript). In the
frontend the popular https://angular.io/[Angular] framework is used to
create a so-called _Single Page Application_. The user interface layout
is implementing Google's https://material.io/[Material Design] using
https://material.angular.io/[Angular Material] components. All icons found in the UI are originating from the
https://fontawesome.com[Font Awesome] library.

JavaScript is also used in the backend as the exclusive programming
language: An http://expressjs.com[Express] application hosted in a
https://nodejs.org[Node.js] server delivers the client-side code to
the browser. It also provides the necessary backend functionality to the
client via a RESTful API. As an underlying database a light-weight
https://www.sqlite.org[SQLite] was chosen, because of its file-based
nature. This makes the database easy to create from scratch
programmatically without the need for a dedicated server.
http://docs.sequelizejs.com[Sequelize] and
https://www.npmjs.com/package/finale-rest[finale-rest] are used as an
abstraction layer from the database. This allows using dynamically
created API endpoints for simple interactions (i.e. CRUD operations)
with database resources while still allowing the execution of custom SQL
for more complex queries.

As an additional data store, a https://github.com/c58/marsdb[MarsDB] is
part of the OWASP Juice Shop. It is a JavaScript derivative of the
widely used https://www.mongodb.com[MongoDB] NoSQL database and
compatible with most of its query/modify operations.

The push notifications that are shown when a challenge was successfully
hacked, are implemented via
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455[WebSocket Protocol]. The
application also offers convenient user registration via
https://oauth.net/2/[OAuth 2.0] so users can sign in with their Google
accounts.

The following diagram shows the high-level communication paths between
the client, server and data layers:

image::introduction/architecture-diagram.png[Architecture overview diagram]
