= Why the Juice Shop exists

include::../attributes.adoc[]

To the unsuspecting user the Juice Shop just looks like a small online
shop which sells - _surprise!_ - fruit & vegetable juice and associated
products. Except for the entirely overrated payment and delivery aspect
of the e-commerce business, the Juice Shop is fully functional. But this
is just the tip of the iceberg. The Juice Shop contains
{juiceShopNumberOfChallenges} challenges of varying difficulty
where you are supposed to exploit underlying security vulnerabilities.
These vulnerabilities were intentionally planted in the application for
exactly that purpose, but in a way that actually happens in "real-life"
web development as well!

Your hacking progress is tracked by the application using immediate push
notifications for successful exploits as well as a score board for
progress overview. Finding this score board is actually one of the
(easiest) challenges! The idea behind this is to utilize
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamification[gamification] techniques to
motivate you to get as many challenges solved as possible - similar to
unlocking achievements in many modern video games.

Development of the Juice Shop started in September 2014 as the author's
personal initiative, when his employer needed a more modern security
training exercise environment for an in-house web application. The
previously used environment was still from the era of server-side
rendered ASP/JSP/Servlet and did not reflect the reality of current web
technology. The Juice Shop was developed as open-source software without
any corporate branding right from the beginning. By the end of 2014,
most of the current e-commerce functionality was up and running

* along with an initial number of planted vulnerabilities. Over the
years more variants of vulnerabilities were added. In parallel, the
application was kept up-to-date with the latest web technology (e.g.
WebSockets and OAuth 2.0) and frontend frameworks (i.e. by migrating
from AngularJS with Bootstrap to Angular with Material Design). Some
of these additional capabilities brought the chance to add
corresponding vulnerabilities - and the list of challenges has been
growing ever since.

Apart from the hacker and awareness training use case, penetration
testing tools and automated security scanners are invited to use the
Juice Shop as a sort of guinea pig-application to check how well their
products cope with JavaScript-heavy application frontends and REST APIs.

[discrete]
=== Why _OWASP_ Juice Shop?

____
The Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP) is a nonprofit
foundation that works to improve the security of software. Our
programming includes:

Community-led open source software projects Over 275 local chapters
worldwide Tens of thousands of members Industry-leading educational
and training conferences We are an open community dedicated to
enabling organizations to conceive, develop, acquire, operate, and
maintain applications that can be trusted. All of our projects, tools,
documents, forums, and chapters are free and open to anyone interested
in improving application security. The OWASP Foundation launched on
December 1st, 2001, becoming incorporated as a United States
non-profit charity on April 21, 2004. footnote:1_1_1[https://owasp.org/about/]
____

Two years after its inception the Juice Shop was submitted and accepted
as an _OWASP Tool Project_ by the
https://owasp.org[Open Worldwide Application Security Project] in September
2016. This move increased the overall visibility and outreach of the
project significantly, as it exposed it to a large community of
application security practitioners.

Once in the OWASP project portfolio it took only eight months until
Juice Shop was promoted from the initial _Incubator_ maturity level to
_Lab Projects_ level. By the end of July 2018 the Juice Shop was
promoted to the final _Flagship_ maturity stage for OWASP projects.

image::introduction/Flagship_big.jpg[OWASP Flagship Projects]

[discrete]
=== Why the name "Juice Shop"?

In German there is a dedicated word for _dump_, i.e. a store that sells
lousy wares and does not exactly have customer satisfaction as a
priority: _Saftladen_. Reverse-translating this separately as _Saft_ and
_Laden_ yields _juice_ and _shop_ in English. That is where the project
name comes from. The fact that the initials _JS_ match with those
commonly used for _JavaScript_ was purely coincidental and not related
to the choice of implementation technology.

[discrete]
=== Why the logo?

Other than the name, the Juice Shop logo was designed explicitly with
_JavaScript_ in mind:

image::introduction/JS_Shield.png[Inofficial JS Shield]

The author's idea was to convert one of the (unofficial but popular)
_JavaScript_ shield-logos into a *leaking juice box* because it had a
quite matching shape for this shenanigans:

image::introduction/JuiceShop_RetroLogo.png[Original JuiceShop logo]

In 2017 the logo received a facelift and a spin-off when the Juice Shop
introduced its Capture-the-flag extension (which is discussed in its own chapter xref:part4/ctf.adoc#_hosting_a_ctf_event[Hosting a CTF event] later in this book).

image:introduction/JuiceShop_Logo.png[OWASP Juice Shop logo]
image:introduction/JuiceShopCTF_Logo.png[OWASP Juice Shop CTF logo]

[discrete]
=== Why yet another vulnerable web application?

A considerable number of vulnerable web applications already existed
before the Juice Shop was created. The
https://owasp.org/www-project-vulnerable-web-applications-directory/[OWASP Vulnerable Web Applications Directory (VWAD)]
maintains a list of these applications. When the Juice Shop came to life
there were only _server-side rendered_ applications in the VWAD, but
_Rich Internet Application (RIA)_ or _Single Page Application (SPA)_
style applications were already a commodity at that time. Juice Shop was
meant to fill that gap.

Many of the existing vulnerable web applications were very rudimentary
in their functional scope. So the aim of the Juice Shop was also to give
the impression of a functionally complete e-commerce application that
could actually exist like this in the wild.
