docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part4/integration.adoc, before:

= Integration
include::../attributes.adoc[]

OWASP Juice Shop follows strict conventions for describing challenges.
These allow you to easily integrate Juice Shop tutorials, hints and
solutions into your own security guides, knowledge bases, testing labs
etc.

== Challenges API

The endpoint `/api/Challenges` on your local Juice Shop instance (i.e.
http://localhost:3000/api/Challenges) returns information on the
configured challenges along with their current state in an easily
consumable JSON format:

[,json]
----
{
   "status":"success",
   "data":[
      {
         "id":1,
         "key":"restfulXssChallenge",
         "name":"API-only XSS",
         "category":"XSS",
         "description":"Perform a <i>persisted</i> XSS attack with <code>&lt;iframe src=\"javascript:alert(`xss`)\"&gt;</code> without using the frontend application at all. <em>(This challenge is <strong>not available</strong> on Heroku!)</em>",
         "difficulty":3,
         "hint":"You need to work with the server-side API directly. Try different HTTP verbs on different entities exposed through the API.",
         "hintUrl":"https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/xss.html#perform-a-persisted-xss-attack-without-using-the-frontend-application-at-all",
         "solved":false,
         "disabledEnv":"Heroku",
         "createdAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.258Z",
         "updatedAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.258Z"
      },
      {
         "id":2,
         "key":"accessLogDisclosureChallenge",
         "name":"Access Log",
         "category":"Sensitive Data Exposure",
         "description":"Gain access to any access log file of the server.",
         "difficulty":4,
         "hint":"Who would want a server access log to be accessible through a web application?",
         "hintUrl":"https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/sensitive-data-exposure.html#gain-access-to-any-access-log-file-of-the-server",
         "solved":false,
         "disabledEnv":null,
         "createdAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.259Z",
         "updatedAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.259Z"
      },
      {
        "...":"..."
      }
   ]
}
----

Instead of your own local instance you can also use the API of the
publicly available demo instances to pull challenge information:

* http://demo.owasp-juice.shop/api/Challenges for the latest released
version (`master` branch)
* http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/api/Challenges for the next version
to be released (`develop` branch)

🚨 _There is no uptime guarantee for either of these as they are both
only free Heroku dynos. Please refrain from making unnecessary amounts
of requests._

=== API integration example

* The
https://www.npmjs.com/package/juice-shop-ctf-cli[Juice Shop CTF Extension]
calls the API of a specified Juice Shop instance
xref:part4/ctf.adoc#_generating_challenge_import_files_with_juice_shop_ctf_cli[to retrieve the challenges to later import into a CTF score server].

== Challenge declaration file

The single source of truth for challenges in OWASP Juice Shop is its
`data/static/challenges.yml` file. It is used during start-up of the
application to populate the `Challenges` table which is then exposed via
the <<_challenges_api,Challenges API>> endpoint.

Parsing this file directly for integration makes sense when you do not
rely on changed settings (e.g. hints being turned off) from an
individual xref:part4/customization.adoc#customization[Customization]
and/or you do not have a running Juice Shop instance available in the
first place.

[,yaml]
----
-
  name: 'Some Name'
  category: 'Category of the challenge'
  description: 'Here the actual task for the attacker is described.'
  difficulty: 1 # a number between 1 and 6
  hint: 'A text hint to display on the Score Board when hovering over the challenge'
  hintUrl: 'https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/<category>.html#<shortened description>'
  key: someNameChallenge
  disabledEnv: # (optional) to disable challenges dangerous or incompatible in certain environments
    - Docker
    - Heroku
    - Windows
  tutorial: # (optional) present only on challenges with a Hacking Instructor tutorial
    order: 1 # a unique number to specify the recommended order of tutorials
----

The latest versions of the `challenges.yml` file can be found here:

* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/master/data/static/challenges.yml
for the latest released version (`master` branch)
* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/develop/data/static/challenges.yml
for a snapshot of the next version to be released (`develop` branch)

=== Generating links to Juice Shop

|===
| Description | Link composition | Condition | Examples

| Link to a specific challenge of the Score Board
| `/#/score-board?challenge=<name>`
| Will scroll to the challenge, but only if it is visible as per the current filter settings.
| http://localhost:3000/pass:[#]/score-board?challenge=DOM%20XSS or http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/pass:[#]/score-board?challenge=Score%20Board

| Link to official hints for a specific challenge
| `<hintUrl>`
|
| https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/part2/score-board.html#_find_the_carefully_hidden_score_board_page or https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/part2/xss.html#_perform_a_dom_xss_attack

| Link to official step-by-step solution for a specific challenge
| `+https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.html#<hash part of hintUrl>+`
|
| https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.htmlpass:[#]_find_the_carefully_hidden_score_board_page or https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.htmlpass:[#]_perform_a_dom_xss_attack

| Direct link to a xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_hacking_instructor[Hacking Instructor] tutorial for a specific challenge
| `/#/hacking-instructor?challenge=<name>`
| Only for challenges where `tutorial` is defined.
| http://localhost:3000/pass:[#]/hacking-instructor?challenge=Score%20Board or http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/pass:[#]/hacking-instructor?challenge=DOM%20XSS
|===

=== YAML integration example

* The official project website https://owasp-juice.shop uses (a copy
of) the `challenges.yml` to render
https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/#div-challenges[_Challenge Categories_]
and https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/#div-tutorials[_Hacking
Instructor Tutorials_]
tables with the help of
https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/filters/[Liquid Filters].

== Challenge solution webhook

Any Juice Shop instance can be configured to call a webhook whenever one
of its {juiceShopNumberOfChallenges} hacking challenges is
solved. To use this feature the following environment variable needs to
be supplied to the Juice Shop server:

|===
| Environment variable | Expected value | Recommendations

| `SOLUTIONS_WEBHOOK`
| URL of the webhook Juice Shop is supposed to call whenever a challenge is solved.
| The webhook URL should be bound to the user who solved the challenge and allow its provider to verify the Juice Shop origin instance. In most cases *the webhook URL should be treated as sensitive information and not be published or transmitted unencrypted!*
|===

=== Webhook payload

Juice Shop will send a `POST` request to the configured
`SOLUTIONS_WEBHOOK` with the following payload:

[,json]
----
{ "solution":
  { "challenge": "<'key' of the solved challenge from ./data/static/challenges.yml>",
    "cheatScore": "<probability of 0..1 that this solution has been cheated>",
    "totalCheatScore": "<average probability of 0..1 that solutions up until now have been cheated>",
    "issuedOn": "<yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ssZ>"
  },
  "ctfFlag": "<CTF flag code of the solved challenged based on the injected (or default) 'CTF_KEY'>",
  "issuer": {
    "hostName": "<server os hostname>",
    "os": "<server os type (and release)>",
    "appName": "<'application.name' from loaded YAML configuration in ./config folder>",
    "config": "<name of the loaded configuration>",
    "version": "<version from ./package.json>"
  }
}
----

==== Webhook payload example

[,json]
----
{
    "solution": {
        "challenge": "key",
        "cheatScore": 0,
        "totalCheatScore": 0,
        "issuedOn": "2020-12-15T18:24:33.027Z"
    },
    "ctfFlag": "b0d70dce6cadadb85882ea498fac6785dba2349b",
    "issuer": {
        "hostName": "fv-az116-673",
        "os": "Linux (5.4.0-1031-azure)",
        "appName": "OWASP Juice Shop",
        "config": "default",
        "version": "12.3.0-SNAPSHOT"
    }
}
----

== Vulnerable code snippets API

Any running Juice Shop instance since `v12.7.0` provides two REST
endpoints `/snippets` and `/snippets/<challengeKey>` which can be used
to retrieve the actual vulnerable code snippets for many of the
challenges. These are described in the
xref:part5/code-snippets.adoc#_rest_endpoints[REST endpoints] section of the
xref:part5/code-snippets.adoc#_coding_challenges[Vulnerable code snippets] appendix.

=== API integration example

* The Score Board itself is using these endpoints to decide for which
challenges to show a code snippet button, and then to subsequently
retrieve a code snippet when such a button in clicked.
* The
https://www.npmjs.com/package/juice-shop-ctf-cli[Juice Shop CTF Extension]
calls the API of a specified Juice Shop instance
xref:part4/ctf.adoc#_generating_challenge_import_files_with_juice_shop_ctf_cli[to retrieve the snippets to later offer them as a hint on a CTF score server].

Commit message:

Add challenge link description for Score Board Preview

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part4/integration.adoc, after:

= Integration
include::../attributes.adoc[]

OWASP Juice Shop follows strict conventions for describing challenges.
These allow you to easily integrate Juice Shop tutorials, hints and
solutions into your own security guides, knowledge bases, testing labs
etc.

== Challenges API

The endpoint `/api/Challenges` on your local Juice Shop instance (i.e.
http://localhost:3000/api/Challenges) returns information on the
configured challenges along with their current state in an easily
consumable JSON format:

[,json]
----
{
   "status":"success",
   "data":[
      {
         "id":1,
         "key":"restfulXssChallenge",
         "name":"API-only XSS",
         "category":"XSS",
         "description":"Perform a <i>persisted</i> XSS attack with <code>&lt;iframe src=\"javascript:alert(`xss`)\"&gt;</code> without using the frontend application at all. <em>(This challenge is <strong>not available</strong> on Heroku!)</em>",
         "difficulty":3,
         "hint":"You need to work with the server-side API directly. Try different HTTP verbs on different entities exposed through the API.",
         "hintUrl":"https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/xss.html#perform-a-persisted-xss-attack-without-using-the-frontend-application-at-all",
         "solved":false,
         "disabledEnv":"Heroku",
         "createdAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.258Z",
         "updatedAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.258Z"
      },
      {
         "id":2,
         "key":"accessLogDisclosureChallenge",
         "name":"Access Log",
         "category":"Sensitive Data Exposure",
         "description":"Gain access to any access log file of the server.",
         "difficulty":4,
         "hint":"Who would want a server access log to be accessible through a web application?",
         "hintUrl":"https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/sensitive-data-exposure.html#gain-access-to-any-access-log-file-of-the-server",
         "solved":false,
         "disabledEnv":null,
         "createdAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.259Z",
         "updatedAt":"2020-03-23T12:00:34.259Z"
      },
      {
        "...":"..."
      }
   ]
}
----

Instead of your own local instance you can also use the API of the
publicly available demo instances to pull challenge information:

* http://demo.owasp-juice.shop/api/Challenges for the latest released
version (`master` branch)
* http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/api/Challenges for the next version
to be released (`develop` branch)

🚨 _There is no uptime guarantee for either of these as they are both
only free Heroku dynos. Please refrain from making unnecessary amounts
of requests._

=== API integration example

* The
https://www.npmjs.com/package/juice-shop-ctf-cli[Juice Shop CTF Extension]
calls the API of a specified Juice Shop instance
xref:part4/ctf.adoc#_generating_challenge_import_files_with_juice_shop_ctf_cli[to retrieve the challenges to later import into a CTF score server].

== Challenge declaration file

The single source of truth for challenges in OWASP Juice Shop is its
`data/static/challenges.yml` file. It is used during start-up of the
application to populate the `Challenges` table which is then exposed via
the <<_challenges_api,Challenges API>> endpoint.

Parsing this file directly for integration makes sense when you do not
rely on changed settings (e.g. hints being turned off) from an
individual xref:part4/customization.adoc#customization[Customization]
and/or you do not have a running Juice Shop instance available in the
first place.

[,yaml]
----
-
  name: 'Some Name'
  category: 'Category of the challenge'
  description: 'Here the actual task for the attacker is described.'
  difficulty: 1 # a number between 1 and 6
  hint: 'A text hint to display on the Score Board when hovering over the challenge'
  hintUrl: 'https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part2/<category>.html#<shortened description>'
  key: someNameChallenge
  disabledEnv: # (optional) to disable challenges dangerous or incompatible in certain environments
    - Docker
    - Heroku
    - Windows
  tutorial: # (optional) present only on challenges with a Hacking Instructor tutorial
    order: 1 # a unique number to specify the recommended order of tutorials
----

The latest versions of the `challenges.yml` file can be found here:

* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/master/data/static/challenges.yml
for the latest released version (`master` branch)
* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/develop/data/static/challenges.yml
for a snapshot of the next version to be released (`develop` branch)

=== Generating links to Juice Shop

|===
| Description | Link composition | Condition | Examples

| Link to a specific challenge on the Score Board
| `/#/score-board?challenge=<name>`
| Will scroll to the challenge, but only if it is visible as per the current filter settings.
| http://localhost:3000/pass:[#]/score-board?challenge=DOM%20XSS or http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/pass:[#]/score-board?challenge=Score%20Board

| Link to a specific challenge on the Preview Score Board
| `/#/score-board-preview?searchQuery=<name>`
| Will filter the Score Board resulting in just the one matching challenge.
| http://localhost:3000/pass:[#]/score-board-preview?searchQuery=DOM%20XSS or http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/pass:[#]/score-board-preview?searchQuery=Score%20Board

| Link to official hints for a specific challenge
| `<hintUrl>`
|
| https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/part2/score-board.html#_find_the_carefully_hidden_score_board_page or https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/part2/xss.html#_perform_a_dom_xss_attack

| Link to official step-by-step solution for a specific challenge
| `+https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.html#<hash part of hintUrl>+`
|
| https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.htmlpass:[#]_find_the_carefully_hidden_score_board_page or https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/companion-guide/latest/appendix/solutions.htmlpass:[#]_perform_a_dom_xss_attack

| Direct link to a xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_hacking_instructor[Hacking Instructor] tutorial for a specific challenge
| `/#/hacking-instructor?challenge=<name>`
| Only for challenges where `tutorial` is defined.
| http://localhost:3000/pass:[#]/hacking-instructor?challenge=Score%20Board or http://preview.owasp-juice.shop/pass:[#]/hacking-instructor?challenge=DOM%20XSS
|===

=== YAML integration example

* The official project website https://owasp-juice.shop uses (a copy
of) the `challenges.yml` to render
https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/#div-challenges[_Challenge Categories_]
and https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/#div-tutorials[_Hacking
Instructor Tutorials_]
tables with the help of
https://jekyllrb.com/docs/liquid/filters/[Liquid Filters].

== Challenge solution webhook

Any Juice Shop instance can be configured to call a webhook whenever one
of its {juiceShopNumberOfChallenges} hacking challenges is
solved. To use this feature the following environment variable needs to
be supplied to the Juice Shop server:

|===
| Environment variable | Expected value | Recommendations

| `SOLUTIONS_WEBHOOK`
| URL of the webhook Juice Shop is supposed to call whenever a challenge is solved.
| The webhook URL should be bound to the user who solved the challenge and allow its provider to verify the Juice Shop origin instance. In most cases *the webhook URL should be treated as sensitive information and not be published or transmitted unencrypted!*
|===

=== Webhook payload

Juice Shop will send a `POST` request to the configured
`SOLUTIONS_WEBHOOK` with the following payload:

[,json]
----
{ "solution":
  { "challenge": "<'key' of the solved challenge from ./data/static/challenges.yml>",
    "cheatScore": "<probability of 0..1 that this solution has been cheated>",
    "totalCheatScore": "<average probability of 0..1 that solutions up until now have been cheated>",
    "issuedOn": "<yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ssZ>"
  },
  "ctfFlag": "<CTF flag code of the solved challenged based on the injected (or default) 'CTF_KEY'>",
  "issuer": {
    "hostName": "<server os hostname>",
    "os": "<server os type (and release)>",
    "appName": "<'application.name' from loaded YAML configuration in ./config folder>",
    "config": "<name of the loaded configuration>",
    "version": "<version from ./package.json>"
  }
}
----

==== Webhook payload example

[,json]
----
{
    "solution": {
        "challenge": "key",
        "cheatScore": 0,
        "totalCheatScore": 0,
        "issuedOn": "2020-12-15T18:24:33.027Z"
    },
    "ctfFlag": "b0d70dce6cadadb85882ea498fac6785dba2349b",
    "issuer": {
        "hostName": "fv-az116-673",
        "os": "Linux (5.4.0-1031-azure)",
        "appName": "OWASP Juice Shop",
        "config": "default",
        "version": "12.3.0-SNAPSHOT"
    }
}
----

== Vulnerable code snippets API

Any running Juice Shop instance since `v12.7.0` provides two REST
endpoints `/snippets` and `/snippets/<challengeKey>` which can be used
to retrieve the actual vulnerable code snippets for many of the
challenges. These are described in the
xref:part5/code-snippets.adoc#_rest_endpoints[REST endpoints] section of the
xref:part5/code-snippets.adoc#_coding_challenges[Vulnerable code snippets] appendix.

=== API integration example

* The Score Board itself is using these endpoints to decide for which
challenges to show a code snippet button, and then to subsequently
retrieve a code snippet when such a button in clicked.
* The
https://www.npmjs.com/package/juice-shop-ctf-cli[Juice Shop CTF Extension]
calls the API of a specified Juice Shop instance
xref:part4/ctf.adoc#_generating_challenge_import_files_with_juice_shop_ctf_cli[to retrieve the snippets to later offer them as a hint on a CTF score server].
