docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part4/troubleshooting.adoc, before:

= Troubleshooting[[_troubleshooting]]
include::../attributes.adoc[]

:pp: {plus}{plus}

If (and only if) none of the
<<_common_support_issues,Common support issues>> described below could
help resolve your issue, please ask for individual support on our
https://gitter.im/bkimminich/juice-shop[official Gitter Chat]. If you
are sure to have found a bug in the Juice Shop itself please
https://github.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug-report.adoc&title=%5B%F0%9F%90%9B%5D+[open a 🐛 Bug report issue]
on GitHub.

🛑 _Please *do not* file questions or support requests on the GitHub
issues tracker._

== Start-up validations

During server start the Juice Shop runs a series of self-validations and
print feedback about their success to the console:

image::appendix/passing_startup-validations.png[Passing start-up validations]

Juice Shop will resist to launch as long as any of these validations
fail:

image::appendix/failing_startup-validations.png[Failing start-up validations]

The following checks are run during server startup and can typically be
fixed in a straightforward fashion when they fail:

|===
| Validation error message | Typical solution

| `+Dependencies in ... could not be checked due to "..." error+`
| Repair the mentioned dependency file. When using an original tag release version or `master` branch you should *never* see this error.

| `+Dependencies in ... are not rightly satisfied+` followed by individual messages on missing dependencies or version mismatches
| If you installed xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_sources[from sources] re-run `npm install` and check for errors during that step. See also <<_node_js_npm,Node.js / NPM>> for some common culprits. In a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution] you should *never* see this error.

| `+Detected Node version ... is not in the supported version range of ...+`
| Install one of the officially supported Node.js versions {nodeVersions}. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure its version matches your installed Node.js version.

| `+Detected OS ... is not in the list of supported platforms ...+`
| Make sure you use a supported operating system. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure you downloaded the one for your OS.

| `+Detected CPU ... is not in the list of supported architectures ...+`
| Make sure you use a supported processor architecture. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure you downloaded the one for your processor.

| `+Required file ... is missing+`
| If you installed xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_sources[from sources] re-run `npm install` and check for errors, especially during its final step `+Generating ES5 bundles for differential loading...+`. In a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution] you should *never* see this error.

| `+Port ... is in use+`
| Make sure the port you intend to run Juice Shop on is actually available or use another port by setting the `PORT` environment variable.

| `+Config schema validation failed with ... errors+` followed by individual messages on wrong property types or unrecognized properties
| Make sure that your customization complies with the schema of the xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Only ... products are configured but at least four are required+`
| Make sure that at least four items are present in the `products` array of your configuration. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+No product is configured as "..." challenge product but one is required+`
| Make sure that each property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` (required for some of the challenges) is present on a single product in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+... products are configured as "..." challenge product but only one is allowed+`
| Make sure that each property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` (required for some of the challenges) is present on exactly one product in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Product ... is used as "..." challenge product and "..." challenge product but can only be used for one challenge+`
| Make sure no single product is associated with more than one property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Only ... memories are configured but at least two are required+`
| Make sure that at least two items are present in the `memories` array of your configuration. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+No memory is configured as "..." challenge memory but one is required+`
| Make sure that each property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` (required for some of the challenges) is present on a single memory of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+... memories are configured as "..." challenge memory but only one is allowed+`
| Make sure that each property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` (required for some of the challenges) is present on exactly one memory of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Memory ... is used as "..." challenge memory and "..." challenge memory but can only be used for one challenge+`
| Make sure no single memory is associated with more than one property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `Restricted tutorial mode is enabled while Hacking Instructor is disabled`
| Make sure `hackingInstructor.isenabled` is `true` when you also have configured `challenges.restrictToTutorialsFirst` set to `true`.

| `CTF flags are enabled while challenge solved notifications are disabled`
| Make sure `challenges.showSolvedNotifications` is `true` when you also have configured `ctf.showFlagsInNotifications` set to `true`.

| `CTF country mappings for FBCTF are enabled while CTF flags are disabled`
| Make sure `ctf.showFlagsInNotifications` is `true` when you also have configured `ctf.showCountryDetailsInNotifications` set to `name`, `flag` or `both`.

| `+Intent ... is missing in chatbot training data+`
| Make sure that your chatbot training data defines all mandatory `intent` objects defined in the xref:part5/chatbot.adoc#_chatbot_training_data[Chatbot training data] specification.

| `+Answer with ... action and handler ... is missing for intent ...+`
| Make sure that your chatbot training data defines the expected `+{ "action": "...", "handler": "..." }+` on the mentioned mandatory `intent` object as defined in the xref:part5/chatbot.adoc#_chatbot_training_data[Chatbot training data] specification.
|===

If your installation did not even get to the point of running these
checks _or_ all checks successfully pass with `(OK)` but the application
still fails to start, please check the
<<_common_support_issues,Common support issues>> for possible hints to
solve your issue.

== Common support issues

The following issues have been seen (and solved/mitigated) more than
once and can hopefully help you to narrow down a solution for your
issue.

=== Node.js / NPM

* After changing to a different Node.js version it is a good idea to
delete `node_modules` and re-install all dependencies from scratch
with `npm install`
* If during `npm install` the `sqlite3` or `libxmljs2` binaries cannot
be downloaded for your system, the setup falls back to building from
source with `node-gyp`. Check the
https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp#installation[`node-gyp` installation instructions]
for additional tools you might need to install (e.g. Python 2.7, GCC,
Visual C{pp} Build Tools etc.)
* If `npm install` runs into a `Unexpected end of JSON input` error you
might need to clean your NPM cache with `npm cache clean --force` and
then try again.

=== Linux

* *If you are using Kali Linux to build and/or run OWASP Juice Shop, please try another Linux distro.* Kali has proven to be very flaky as a regular runtime environment.
* If `npm install` fails on Ubuntu with the pre-installed Node.js please
install the latest release of Node.js {recommendedNodeVersion}
from scratch and try again.
* If `npm install` on Linux runs into `WARN cannot run in wd` problems
(e.g. during the frontend installation step) try running `npm install
--unsafe-perm` instead.
* [.line-through]#If `npm start` fails with `Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory,
copyfile` you might have had either an error already during `npm
install` _or_ you pulled changes from GitHub but did not re-run `npm
install` afterwards. Make sure to check if the file to copy from
exists on your disk and if the target folder for the copy is there.#
_(Should no longer occur with v12.0.2 or later)_

=== Docker

* If using Docker Toolbox on Windows make sure that you also enable port
forwarding from Host `127.0.0.1:3000` to `0.0.0.0:3000` for TCP for
the `default` VM in VirtualBox.

=== Heroku

* The
https://github.com/juice-shop/juice-shop#deploy-on-heroku-free-0month-dyno["Deploy to Heroku" button on the `README`]
only works from browsers where no plugins or settings interfere with
`Referer` HTTP headers

=== SQLite

* [.line-through]#If all startup checks show `(OK)` but you see `SequelizeDatabaseError:
SQLITE_ERROR: no such table: <some table name>` errors right
afterwards, please check if the file `data/juiceshop.sqlite` exists.
If so just stop and restart your server and this suspected race
condition issue shouid go away.# _(Should no longer occur with v14.3.0 or later)_

=== Vagrant

* Using the Vagrant script (on Windows) might not work while your virus
scanner is running. This problem was experienced at least with
F-Secure Internet Security.

=== OAuth

* If you are missing the _Login with Google_ button, you are running
OWASP Juice Shop under an unrecognized URL. *You can still solve the
OAuth related challenge!*
* If you want to manually make the OAuth integration work to get the
full user experience, create your own customization file and define
all properties in the
xref:part4/customization.adoc#_googleoauth_subsection[`googleOauth` subsection]

=== Challenges

* If you notice that a challenge solution is not working, check on the
_Score Board_ if that challenge is one of the
xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_potentially_dangerous_challenges[potentially dangerous ones]
which are by default disabled in Docker environments and shared
platforms like Heroku.
* You may find it easier to find vulnerabilities using a pen test tool.
We strongly recommend
https://www.zaproxy.org/[OWASP ZAP (Zed Attack Proxy)] which is open
source and very powerful, yet beginner friendly.

Commit message:

Add documentation of domain access check

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part4/troubleshooting.adoc, after:

= Troubleshooting[[_troubleshooting]]
include::../attributes.adoc[]

:pp: {plus}{plus}

If (and only if) none of the
<<_common_support_issues,Common support issues>> described below could
help resolve your issue, please ask for individual support on our
https://gitter.im/bkimminich/juice-shop[official Gitter Chat]. If you
are sure to have found a bug in the Juice Shop itself please
https://github.com/juice-shop/juice-shop/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug-report.adoc&title=%5B%F0%9F%90%9B%5D+[open a 🐛 Bug report issue]
on GitHub.

🛑 _Please *do not* file questions or support requests on the GitHub
issues tracker._

== Start-up validations

During server start the Juice Shop runs a series of self-validations and
print feedback about their success to the console:

image::appendix/passing_startup-validations.png[Passing start-up validations]

Juice Shop will resist to launch as long as any of these validations
fail:

image::appendix/failing_startup-validations.png[Failing start-up validations]

The following checks are run during server startup and can typically be
fixed in a straightforward fashion when they fail:

|===
| Validation error message | Typical solution

| `+Dependencies in ... could not be checked due to "..." error+`
| Repair the mentioned dependency file. When using an original tag release version or `master` branch you should *never* see this error.

| `+Dependencies in ... are not rightly satisfied+` followed by individual messages on missing dependencies or version mismatches
| If you installed xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_sources[from sources] re-run `npm install` and check for errors during that step. See also <<_node_js_npm,Node.js / NPM>> for some common culprits. In a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution] you should *never* see this error.

| `+Detected Node version ... is not in the supported version range of ...+`
| Install one of the officially supported Node.js versions {nodeVersions}. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure its version matches your installed Node.js version.

| `+Detected OS ... is not in the list of supported platforms ...+`
| Make sure you use a supported operating system. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure you downloaded the one for your OS.

| `+Detected CPU ... is not in the list of supported architectures ...+`
| Make sure you use a supported processor architecture. If you use a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution], make sure you downloaded the one for your processor.

| `+Required file ... is missing+`
| If you installed xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_sources[from sources] re-run `npm install` and check for errors, especially during its final step `+Generating ES5 bundles for differential loading...+`. In a xref:part1/running.adoc#_from_pre_packaged_distribution[pre-packaged distribution] you should *never* see this error.

| `+Port ... is in use+`
| Make sure the port you intend to run Juice Shop on is actually available or use another port by setting the `PORT` environment variable.

| `+Config schema validation failed with ... errors+` followed by individual messages on wrong property types or unrecognized properties
| Make sure that your customization complies with the schema of the xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Only ... products are configured but at least four are required+`
| Make sure that at least four items are present in the `products` array of your configuration. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+No product is configured as "..." challenge product but one is required+`
| Make sure that each property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` (required for some of the challenges) is present on a single product in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+... products are configured as "..." challenge product but only one is allowed+`
| Make sure that each property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` (required for some of the challenges) is present on exactly one product in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Product ... is used as "..." challenge product and "..." challenge product but can only be used for one challenge+`
| Make sure no single product is associated with more than one property `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge`, `urlForProductTamperingChallenge`, `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` and `keywordsForPastebinDataLeakChallenge` in your custom inventory. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Only ... memories are configured but at least two are required+`
| Make sure that at least two items are present in the `memories` array of your configuration. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+No memory is configured as "..." challenge memory but one is required+`
| Make sure that each property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` (required for some of the challenges) is present on a single memory of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+... memories are configured as "..." challenge memory but only one is allowed+`
| Make sure that each property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` (required for some of the challenges) is present on exactly one memory of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `+Memory ... is used as "..." challenge memory and "..." challenge memory but can only be used for one challenge+`
| Make sure no single memory is associated with more than one property duo `geoStalkingMetaSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingMetaSecurityAnswer` and `geoStalkingVisualSecurityQuestion`/`geoStalkingVisualSecurityAnswer` of your custom photo wall. See also xref:part4/customization.adoc#_yaml_configuration_file[YAML configuration file].

| `Restricted tutorial mode is enabled while Hacking Instructor is disabled`
| Make sure `hackingInstructor.isenabled` is `true` when you also have configured `challenges.restrictToTutorialsFirst` set to `true`.

| `CTF flags are enabled while challenge solved notifications are disabled`
| Make sure `challenges.showSolvedNotifications` is `true` when you also have configured `ctf.showFlagsInNotifications` set to `true`.

| `CTF country mappings for FBCTF are enabled while CTF flags are disabled`
| Make sure `ctf.showFlagsInNotifications` is `true` when you also have configured `ctf.showCountryDetailsInNotifications` set to `name`, `flag` or `both`.

| `+Intent ... is missing in chatbot training data+`
| Make sure that your chatbot training data defines all mandatory `intent` objects defined in the xref:part5/chatbot.adoc#_chatbot_training_data[Chatbot training data] specification.

| `+Answer with ... action and handler ... is missing for intent ...+`
| Make sure that your chatbot training data defines the expected `+{ "action": "...", "handler": "..." }+` on the mentioned mandatory `intent` object as defined in the xref:part5/chatbot.adoc#_chatbot_training_data[Chatbot training data] specification.

| `+Domain ... is not reachable+`
| Make sure the Juice Shop server has outgoing Internet connectivity and that the mentioned domain is not blocked by any firewall rules or proxies.

| `+... will not work as intended without access to ...+`
| The mentioned feature or challenge will be broken unless connectivity to the mentioned domain is allowed from the Juice Shop server. In case of a dependent challenge, the challenge will likely be unsolvable but for technical reasons _without_ xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_potentially_dangerous_challenges[being explicitly disabled on the Score Board].
|===

If your installation did not even get to the point of running these
checks _or_ all checks successfully pass with `(OK)` but the application
still fails to start, please check the
<<_common_support_issues,Common support issues>> for possible hints to
solve your issue.

== Common support issues

The following issues have been seen (and solved/mitigated) more than
once and can hopefully help you to narrow down a solution for your
issue.

=== Node.js / NPM

* After changing to a different Node.js version it is a good idea to
delete `node_modules` and re-install all dependencies from scratch
with `npm install`
* If during `npm install` the `sqlite3` or `libxmljs2` binaries cannot
be downloaded for your system, the setup falls back to building from
source with `node-gyp`. Check the
https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp#installation[`node-gyp` installation instructions]
for additional tools you might need to install (e.g. Python 2.7, GCC,
Visual C{pp} Build Tools etc.)
* If `npm install` runs into a `Unexpected end of JSON input` error you
might need to clean your NPM cache with `npm cache clean --force` and
then try again.

=== Linux

* *If you are using Kali Linux to build and/or run OWASP Juice Shop, please try another Linux distro.* Kali has proven to be very flaky as a regular runtime environment.
* If `npm install` fails on Ubuntu with the pre-installed Node.js please
install the latest release of Node.js {recommendedNodeVersion}
from scratch and try again.
* If `npm install` on Linux runs into `WARN cannot run in wd` problems
(e.g. during the frontend installation step) try running `npm install
--unsafe-perm` instead.
* [.line-through]#If `npm start` fails with `Error: ENOENT: no such file or directory,
copyfile` you might have had either an error already during `npm
install` _or_ you pulled changes from GitHub but did not re-run `npm
install` afterwards. Make sure to check if the file to copy from
exists on your disk and if the target folder for the copy is there.#
_(Should no longer occur with v12.0.2 or later)_

=== Docker

* If using Docker Toolbox on Windows make sure that you also enable port
forwarding from Host `127.0.0.1:3000` to `0.0.0.0:3000` for TCP for
the `default` VM in VirtualBox.

=== Heroku

* The
https://github.com/juice-shop/juice-shop#deploy-on-heroku-free-0month-dyno["Deploy to Heroku" button on the `README`]
only works from browsers where no plugins or settings interfere with
`Referer` HTTP headers

=== SQLite

* [.line-through]#If all startup checks show `(OK)` but you see `SequelizeDatabaseError:
SQLITE_ERROR: no such table: <some table name>` errors right
afterwards, please check if the file `data/juiceshop.sqlite` exists.
If so just stop and restart your server and this suspected race
condition issue shouid go away.# _(Should no longer occur with v14.3.0 or later)_

=== Vagrant

* Using the Vagrant script (on Windows) might not work while your virus
scanner is running. This problem was experienced at least with
F-Secure Internet Security.

=== OAuth

* If you are missing the _Login with Google_ button, you are running
OWASP Juice Shop under an unrecognized URL. *You can still solve the
OAuth related challenge!*
* If you want to manually make the OAuth integration work to get the
full user experience, create your own customization file and define
all properties in the
xref:part4/customization.adoc#_googleoauth_subsection[`googleOauth` subsection]

=== Challenges

* If you notice that a challenge solution is not working, check on the
_Score Board_ if that challenge is one of the
xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_potentially_dangerous_challenges[potentially dangerous ones]
which are by default disabled in Docker environments and shared
platforms like Heroku.
* You may find it easier to find vulnerabilities using a pen test tool.
We strongly recommend
https://www.zaproxy.org/[OWASP ZAP (Zed Attack Proxy)] which is open
source and very powerful, yet beginner friendly.
