README.md, before:

# Pwning OWASP Juice Shop

Written by [Björn Kimminich](http://kimminich.de)

![OWASP Juice Shop logo](introduction/img/juice-shop_logo.png)

This is the official companion guide to the __OWASP Juice Shop__
application. Being a web application with well over 30 intended security
vulnerabilities, the OWASP Juice Shop is supposed to be the opposite of
a _best practice_ or _template application_ for web developers: It is an
awareness, training, demonstration and exercise tool for security risks
in modern web applications. The OWASP Juice Shop is an open-source
project hosted by the non-profit
[Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://owasp.org) and
is developed and maintained by volunteers.

The book is divided into three parts:

### Part I - Hacking preparations

Part one helps you to get the application running and to set up optional
hacking tools.

### Part II - Challenge hunting

Part two gives an overview of the vulnerabilities found in the OWASP
Juice Shop including hints how to find and exploit them in the
application.

### Part III - Getting involved

Part three shows up various ways to contribute to the OWASP Juice Shop
open source project.

----

_Please be aware that this book is not supposed to be a comprehensive
introduction to Web Application Security in general. For every category
of vulnerabilities present in the OWASP Juice Shop you will find a brief
explanation - typically by quoting and referencing to existing content
on the given topic._

----

__Download a .pdf, .epub, or .mobi file from:__

* https://www.gitbook.com/book/bkimminich/pwning-owasp-juice-shop

__Contribute content, suggestions, and fixes on GitHub:__

* https://github.com/bkimminich/pwning-juice-shop

__Official project landing page on the OWASP wiki:__

* https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Juice_Shop_Project

----

[![CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](introduction/img/cc_by-nc-nd_4.0.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

Commit message:

Add contributors list (from `authors` NodeJS tool)

README.md, after:

# Pwning OWASP Juice Shop

Written by [Björn Kimminich](http://kimminich.de)

![OWASP Juice Shop logo](introduction/img/juice-shop_logo.png)

This is the official companion guide to the __OWASP Juice Shop__
application. Being a web application with well over 30 intended security
vulnerabilities, the OWASP Juice Shop is supposed to be the opposite of
a _best practice_ or _template application_ for web developers: It is an
awareness, training, demonstration and exercise tool for security risks
in modern web applications. The OWASP Juice Shop is an open-source
project hosted by the non-profit
[Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://owasp.org) and
is developed and maintained by volunteers.

The book is divided into three parts:

### Part I - Hacking preparations

Part one helps you to get the application running and to set up optional
hacking tools.

### Part II - Challenge hunting

Part two gives an overview of the vulnerabilities found in the OWASP
Juice Shop including hints how to find and exploit them in the
application.

### Part III - Getting involved

Part three shows up various ways to contribute to the OWASP Juice Shop
open source project.

----

_Please be aware that this book is not supposed to be a comprehensive
introduction to Web Application Security in general. For every category
of vulnerabilities present in the OWASP Juice Shop you will find a brief
explanation - typically by quoting and referencing to existing content
on the given topic._

----

__Download a .pdf, .epub, or .mobi file from:__

* https://www.gitbook.com/book/bkimminich/pwning-owasp-juice-shop

__Contribute content, suggestions, and fixes on GitHub:__

* https://github.com/bkimminich/pwning-juice-shop

__Official project landing page on the OWASP wiki:__

* https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Juice_Shop_Project

__Contributors:__

Ordered by date of first contribution.
[Auto-generated](https://github.com/dtrejo/node-authors) on Tue, 17 Jan
2017 22:00:25 GMT.

- [Bjoern Kimminich](https://github.com/bkimminich) aka `bkimminich`
- [Cristina Munoz](https://github.com/xmunoz) aka `xmunoz`

----

[![CC BY-NC-ND 4.0](introduction/img/cc_by-nc-nd_4.0.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
