part2/deserialization.md, before:

# Deserialization

> Serialization is the process of turning some object into a data format
> that can be restored later. People often serialize objects in order to
> save them to storage, or to send as part of communications.
> Deserialization is the reverse of that process -- taking data
> structured from some format, and rebuilding it into an object. Today,
> the most popular data format for serializing data is JSON. Before
> that, it was XML.
>
> However, many programming languages offer a native capability for
> serializing objects. These native formats usually offer more features
> than JSON or XML, including customizability of the serialization
> process. Unfortunately, the features of these native deserialization
> mechanisms can be repurposed for malicious effect when operating on
> untrusted data. Attacks against deserializers have been found to allow
> denial-of-service, access control, and remote code execution
> attacks.[^1]

## Challenges covered in this chapter

| Challenge                                                                                                                                                      | Difficulty |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|
| Perform a (DoS-like) Remote Code Execution that would occupy the server for over 2 seconds. (The _NoSQL Injection Tier 1_ challenge does not qualify for this) | 5 of 5     |

### Perform a (DoS-like) Remote Code Execution that would occupy the server for over 2 seconds

> Code Injection is the general term for attack types which consist of
> injecting code that is then interpreted/executed by the application.
> This type of attack exploits poor handling of untrusted data. These
> types of attacks are usually made possible due to a lack of proper
> input/output data validation, for example:
>
> * allowed characters (standard regular expressions classes or custom)
> * data format
> * amount of expected data
>
> Code Injection differs from Command Injection in that an attacker is
> only limited by the functionality of the injected language itself. If
> an attacker is able to inject PHP code into an application and have it
> executed, he is only limited by what PHP is capable of. Command
> injection consists of leveraging existing code to execute commands,
> usually within the context of a shell.[^2]

> The ability to trigger arbitrary code execution from one machine on
> another (especially via a wide-area network such as the Internet) is
> often referred to as remote code execution.[^3]

#### Hints

* The feature you need to exploit for this challenge is not directly
  advertised anywhere.
* As the Juice Shop is written in pure Javascript, there is one data
  format that is most probably used for serialization.
* You can try to DoS the server for longer (or indefinitely) but it is
  supposed to time out your attempts automatically after 2 seconds,
  which then qualifies to solve the challenge.
* Similar to the
  [Let the server sleep for some time](nosqli.md#let-the-server-sleep-for-some-time)
  challenge (which accepted nothing but NoSQL Injection as a solution)
  this challenge will only accept proper RCE as a solution. It cannot be
  solved by simply hammering the server with requests. _That_ would
  probably just _kill_ your server instance.

[^1]: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Deserialization_Cheat_Sheet
[^2]: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Code_Injection
[^3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrary_code_execution

Commit message:

Adapt to renamed RCE Tier 1 challenge

part2/deserialization.md, after:

# Deserialization

> Serialization is the process of turning some object into a data format
> that can be restored later. People often serialize objects in order to
> save them to storage, or to send as part of communications.
> Deserialization is the reverse of that process -- taking data
> structured from some format, and rebuilding it into an object. Today,
> the most popular data format for serializing data is JSON. Before
> that, it was XML.
>
> However, many programming languages offer a native capability for
> serializing objects. These native formats usually offer more features
> than JSON or XML, including customizability of the serialization
> process. Unfortunately, the features of these native deserialization
> mechanisms can be repurposed for malicious effect when operating on
> untrusted data. Attacks against deserializers have been found to allow
> denial-of-service, access control, and remote code execution
> attacks.[^1]

## Challenges covered in this chapter

| Challenge                                                                                | Difficulty |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|
| Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever | 5 of 5     |

### Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever

> Code Injection is the general term for attack types which consist of
> injecting code that is then interpreted/executed by the application.
> This type of attack exploits poor handling of untrusted data. These
> types of attacks are usually made possible due to a lack of proper
> input/output data validation, for example:
>
> * allowed characters (standard regular expressions classes or custom)
> * data format
> * amount of expected data
>
> Code Injection differs from Command Injection in that an attacker is
> only limited by the functionality of the injected language itself. If
> an attacker is able to inject PHP code into an application and have it
> executed, he is only limited by what PHP is capable of. Command
> injection consists of leveraging existing code to execute commands,
> usually within the context of a shell.[^2]
>
> The ability to trigger arbitrary code execution from one machine on
> another (especially via a wide-area network such as the Internet) is
> often referred to as remote code execution.[^3]

#### Hints

* The feature you need to exploit for this challenge is not directly
  advertised anywhere.
* As the Juice Shop is written in pure Javascript, there is one data
  format that is most probably used for serialization.
* You should try make the server busy for all eternity.
* The challenge will be solved if you manage to trigger the protection
  of the application against such DoS attacks.
* Similar to the
  [Let the server sleep for some time](nosqli.md#let-the-server-sleep-for-some-time)
  challenge (which accepted nothing but NoSQL Injection as a solution)
  this challenge will only accept proper RCE as a solution. It cannot be
  solved by simply hammering the server with requests. _That_ would
  probably just _kill_ your server instance.

[^1]: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Deserialization_Cheat_Sheet

[^2]: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Code_Injection

[^3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrary_code_execution
