part2/miscellaneous.md, before:

# Miscellaneous

## Challenges covered in this chapter

| Name            | Description                                                        | Difficulty |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|
| Privacy Policy  | Read our privacy policy.                                           | ⭐         |
| Score Board     | Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page.                      | ⭐         |
| Security Policy | Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action. | ⭐⭐        |

### Read our privacy policy

> A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law)
> that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses,
> discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. It fulfills a
> legal requirement to protect a customer or client's privacy. Personal
> information can be anything that can be used to identify an
> individual, not limited to the person's name, address, date of birth,
> marital status, contact information, ID issue, and expiry date,
> financial records, credit information, medical history, where one
> travels, and intentions to acquire goods and services. In the case of
> a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on
> how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it
> collects. It informs the client what specific information is
> collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners,
> or sold to other firms or enterprises. Privacy policies typically
> represent a broader, more generalized treatment, as opposed to data
> use statements, which tend to be more detailed and specific.
>
> The exact contents of a certain privacy policy will depend upon the
> applicable law and may need to address requirements across
> geographical boundaries and legal jurisdictions. Most countries have
> their own legislation and guidelines of who is covered, what
> information can be collected, and what it can be used for. In general,
> data protection laws in Europe cover the private sector as well as the
> public sector. Their privacy laws apply not only to government
> operations but also to private enterprises and commercial
> transactions.[^1]

* When you work with the application you will most likely solve this
  challenge in the process
* Any automated crawling or spidering tool you use might solve this
  challenge for you
* There is no real hacking involved here

### Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page

This challenge was already covered in
[Finding the Score Board](score-board.md) at the beginning of
[Part II - Challenge hunting](README.md).

### Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action

> The term "white hat" in Internet slang refers to an ethical computer
> hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in penetration
> testing and in other testing methodologies to ensure the security of
> an organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term meant
> to imply a broader category than just penetration testing. Contrasted
> with black hat, a malicious hacker, the name comes from Western films,
> where heroic and antagonistic cowboys might traditionally wear a white
> and a black hat respectively.[^2]

* This challenge asks you to act like an ethical hacker
* As one of the good guys, would you just start attacking an application
  without consent of the owner?
* You also might want to ready the security policy or any bug bounty
  program that is in place

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy
[^2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_hat_(computer_security)

Commit message:

Prepare "Bully Chatbot" hint and solution sections

part2/miscellaneous.md, after:

# Miscellaneous

## Challenges covered in this chapter

| Name            | Description                                                        | Difficulty |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------|
| Bully Chatbot   | Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot.                    | ⭐⭐        |
| Privacy Policy  | Read our privacy policy.                                           | ⭐          |
| Score Board     | Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page.                      | ⭐          |
| Security Policy | Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action. | ⭐⭐        |

### Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot

🛠️ **TODO**

### Read our privacy policy

> A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law)
> that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses,
> discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. It fulfills a
> legal requirement to protect a customer or client's privacy. Personal
> information can be anything that can be used to identify an
> individual, not limited to the person's name, address, date of birth,
> marital status, contact information, ID issue, and expiry date,
> financial records, credit information, medical history, where one
> travels, and intentions to acquire goods and services. In the case of
> a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on
> how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it
> collects. It informs the client what specific information is
> collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners,
> or sold to other firms or enterprises. Privacy policies typically
> represent a broader, more generalized treatment, as opposed to data
> use statements, which tend to be more detailed and specific.
>
> The exact contents of a certain privacy policy will depend upon the
> applicable law and may need to address requirements across
> geographical boundaries and legal jurisdictions. Most countries have
> their own legislation and guidelines of who is covered, what
> information can be collected, and what it can be used for. In general,
> data protection laws in Europe cover the private sector as well as the
> public sector. Their privacy laws apply not only to government
> operations but also to private enterprises and commercial
> transactions.[^1]

* When you work with the application you will most likely solve this
  challenge in the process
* Any automated crawling or spidering tool you use might solve this
  challenge for you
* There is no real hacking involved here

### Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page

This challenge was already covered in
[Finding the Score Board](score-board.md) at the beginning of
[Part II - Challenge hunting](README.md).

### Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action

> The term "white hat" in Internet slang refers to an ethical computer
> hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in penetration
> testing and in other testing methodologies to ensure the security of
> an organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term meant
> to imply a broader category than just penetration testing. Contrasted
> with black hat, a malicious hacker, the name comes from Western films,
> where heroic and antagonistic cowboys might traditionally wear a white
> and a black hat respectively.[^2]

* This challenge asks you to act like an ethical hacker
* As one of the good guys, would you just start attacking an application
  without consent of the owner?
* You also might want to ready the security policy or any bug bounty
  program that is in place

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy
[^2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_hat_(computer_security)
