introduction/motivation.md, before:

# Why OWASP Juice Shop exists

To the unsuspecting user the OWASP Juice Shop just looks like a small
online shop which sells - _surprise!_ - fruit & vegetable juice and
associated products. Except for the entirely overrated payment and
delivery aspect of the ecommerce business, the Juice Shop is fully
functional. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. The Juice Shop
contains over 30 challenges of varying difficulty where you are supposed
to exploit underlying security vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities
were intentionally planted in the application for exactly that purpose,
but in a way that actually happens in "real-life" web development as
well!

Your hacking progress is tracked by the application using immediate push
notifications for successful exploits as well as a score board for
progress overview. Finding this score board is actually one of the
(easiest) challenges! The idea behind this is to utilize
["gamification"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamification) techniques
to motivate you to get as many challenges solved as possible - similar
to unlocking achievements in many modern video games.

Development of the OWASP Juice Shop started in September 2014 when a
more modern exercise environment for an inhouse security training at the
authors employer was needed. The previously used exercise environment
was still from the server-side rendered ASP/JSP/Servlet era and did not
reflect the reality of current web technology any more. The Juice Shop
was developed as open-source software without any corporate branding
right from the beginning. Until end of 2014 most of the current
ecommerce functionality was up and running - along with an initial
number of planted vulnerabilities. Over the years more variants of
vulnerabilities were added. In parallel the application was kept
up-to-date with latest web technology (e.g. WebSockets and OAuth 2.0).
Some of these additional capabilities then brought the chance to add
corresponding vulnerabilities - and so the list of challenges kept
growing ever since.

Apart from the hacker and awareness training use case, penetration
testing tools and automated security scanners are invited to use Juice
Shop as a "guinea pig"-application to check how well their products cope
with Javascript-heavy application frontends and REST APIs.

Two years after its inception the Juice Shop was submitted and accepted
as an _OWASP Tool Project_ by the
[Open Web Application Security Project](https://owasp.org) in September
2016\. This increased the overall visibility and outreach of the project
significantly.

### Why the name "Juice Shop"?

In German there is a dedicated word for _dump_, i.e. a store that sells
lousy wares and does not exactly have customer satisfaction as a
priority: _Saftladen_. Reverse-translating this separately as _Saft_ and
_Laden_ yields _juice_ and _shop_ in English. That is where the project
name comes from. The fact that the initials _JS_ match with those
commonly used for _Javascript_ was purely coincidental and not related
to the choice of implementation technology.

### Why yet another vulnerable web application?

A considerable number of vulnerable web applications already existed
before the Juice Shop was created. The
[OWASP Vulnerable Web Applications Directory (VWAD)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Vulnerable_Web_Applications_Directory_Project)
maintains a list of these applications. When Juice Shop came to life
there were only _server-side rendered_ applications in the VWAD. But
_Rich Internet Application (RIA)_ or _Single Page Application (SPA)_
style applications were already a commodity at that time. Juice Shop was
meant to fill that gap.

Many of the existing vulnerable web applications were very rudimental in
their functional scope. So the aim of the Juice Shop also was to give
the impression of a functionally complete ecommerce application that
could actually exist like this "in the wild".

Commit message:

more spelling cleanup
- ran the project through a spellchecker and corrected obvious
misspellings
- changed 'ecommerce' to 'e-commerce' as this seems to be the most
common current spelling
http://english.stackexchange.com/questions/174165/correct-spelling-and-or-hyphenation-for-electronic-commerce

introduction/motivation.md, after:

# Why OWASP Juice Shop exists

To the unsuspecting user the OWASP Juice Shop just looks like a small
online shop which sells - _surprise!_ - fruit & vegetable juice and
associated products. Except for the entirely overrated payment and
delivery aspect of the e-commerce business, the Juice Shop is fully
functional. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. The Juice Shop
contains over 30 challenges of varying difficulty where you are supposed
to exploit underlying security vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities
were intentionally planted in the application for exactly that purpose,
but in a way that actually happens in "real-life" web development as
well!

Your hacking progress is tracked by the application using immediate push
notifications for successful exploits as well as a score board for
progress overview. Finding this score board is actually one of the
(easiest) challenges! The idea behind this is to utilize
["gamification"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamification) techniques
to motivate you to get as many challenges solved as possible - similar
to unlocking achievements in many modern video games.

Development of the OWASP Juice Shop started in September 2014 when a
more modern exercise environment for an in-house security training at the
authors employer was needed. The previously used exercise environment
was still from the server-side rendered ASP/JSP/Servlet era and did not
reflect the reality of current web technology any more. The Juice Shop
was developed as open-source software without any corporate branding
right from the beginning. Until end of 2014 most of the current
e-commerce functionality was up and running - along with an initial
number of planted vulnerabilities. Over the years more variants of
vulnerabilities were added. In parallel the application was kept
up-to-date with latest web technology (e.g. WebSockets and OAuth 2.0).
Some of these additional capabilities then brought the chance to add
corresponding vulnerabilities - and so the list of challenges kept
growing ever since.

Apart from the hacker and awareness training use case, penetration
testing tools and automated security scanners are invited to use Juice
Shop as a "guinea pig"-application to check how well their products cope
with Javascript-heavy application frontends and REST APIs.

Two years after its inception the Juice Shop was submitted and accepted
as an _OWASP Tool Project_ by the
[Open Web Application Security Project](https://owasp.org) in September
2016\. This increased the overall visibility and outreach of the project
significantly.

### Why the name "Juice Shop"?

In German there is a dedicated word for _dump_, i.e. a store that sells
lousy wares and does not exactly have customer satisfaction as a
priority: _Saftladen_. Reverse-translating this separately as _Saft_ and
_Laden_ yields _juice_ and _shop_ in English. That is where the project
name comes from. The fact that the initials _JS_ match with those
commonly used for _Javascript_ was purely coincidental and not related
to the choice of implementation technology.

### Why yet another vulnerable web application?

A considerable number of vulnerable web applications already existed
before the Juice Shop was created. The
[OWASP Vulnerable Web Applications Directory (VWAD)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Vulnerable_Web_Applications_Directory_Project)
maintains a list of these applications. When Juice Shop came to life
there were only _server-side rendered_ applications in the VWAD. But
_Rich Internet Application (RIA)_ or _Single Page Application (SPA)_
style applications were already a commodity at that time. Juice Shop was
meant to fill that gap.

Many of the existing vulnerable web applications were very rudimental in
their functional scope. So the aim of the Juice Shop also was to give
the impression of a functionally complete e-commerce application that
could actually exist like this "in the wild".
