part3/contribution.md, before:

# Contribute to development

If you would like to contribute to OWASP Juice Shop but need some idea
what task to address, the best place to look is in the GitHub issue
lists at <https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/issues>.

!["help wanted" label on GitHub](img/help_wanted-label.png)
!["good first issue" label on GitHub](img/good_first_issue-label.png)

* Issues labelled with **help wanted** indicate tasks where the project
  team would very much appreciate help from the community
* Issues labelled with **good first issue** indicate tasks that are
  isolated and not too hard to implement, so they are well-suited for
  new contributors

The following sections describe in detail the most important rules and
processes when contributing to the OWASP Juice Shop project.

## Tips for newcomers

If you are new to application development - particularly with Angular
and Express.js - it is recommended to read the
[Codebase 101](codebase.md) to get an overview what belongs where. It
will lower the entry barrier for you significantly.

## Version control

The project uses `git` as its version control system and GitHub as the
central server and collaboration platform. OWASP Juice Shop resides in
the following repository:

<https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop>

### Branching model

OWASP Juice Shop is maintained in a simplified
[Gitflow](http://jeffkreeftmeijer.com/2010/why-arent-you-using-git-flow/)
fashion, where all active development happens on the `develop` branch
while `master` is used to deploy stable versions to the
[Heroku demo instance](https://juice-shop.herokuapp.com) and later
create tagged releases from.

Feature branches are only used for long-term tasks that could jeopardize
regular releases from `develop` in the meantime. Likewise prototypes and
experiments must be developed on an individual branch or a distinct fork
of the entire project.

### Versioning

Any release from `master` is tagged with a unique version in the format
`vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, for example `v1.3.0` or `v4.1.2`.

> Given a version number `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, increment the:
>
> 1. `MAJOR` version when you make incompatible API changes,
> 2. `MINOR` version when you add functionality in a
>    backwards-compatible manner, and
> 3. `PATCH` version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.[^1]

The current version of the project (omitting the leading `v`) must be
manually maintained in the following three places:

* `/package.json` in the `"version"` property
* `/frontend/package.json` in the `"version"` property
* `/Dockerfile` in the `LABEL` named `org.opencontainers.image.version`

All other occurrences of the version (i.e. packaged releases & the menu
bar of the application itself) are resolved through the `"version"`
property of `/package.json` automatically.

### Pull requests

Using Git-Flow means that PRs have the highest chance of getting
accepted and merged when you open them on the `develop` branch of your
fork. That allows for some post-merge changes by the team without
directly compromising the `master` branch, which is supposed to hold
always be in a release-ready state.

It is usually not a big deal if you accidentally open a PR for the
`master` branch. GitHub added the possibility to change the target
branch for a PR afterwards some time ago.

In case you want to open a PR before actually being finished with your
work (e.g. because you'd like to see some intermediate CI/CD results)
please  
put either "`[WIP]`" or `[`:construction:`]` into the title. This will
signal the [WIP app](https://github.com/marketplace/wip) we're using on
GitHub to mark this PR as not ready for merge.

## Contribution guidelines

The minimum requirements for code contributions are:

1. The code _must_ be compliant with the configured ESLint rules based
   on the [JS Standard Code Style](http://standardjs.com).
2. All new and changed code _should_ have a corresponding unit and/or
   integration test.
3. New and changed challenges _must_ have a corresponding e2e test.
4. Linting, as well as all unit, integration and e2e tests _should_ pass
   locally before opening a Pull Request.
5. All Git commits within a PR _must_ be
   [signed off](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit#Documentation/git-commit.txt--s)
   to indicate the contributor's agreement with the
   [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/).

### Linting

![JavaScript Style Guide](img/badge.svg)

```bash
npm run lint
```

The `npm run lint` script verifies code compliance with

* the `eslintrc.js` rules derived from `standard` for all server-side
  JavaScript code
* the `frontend/eslintrc.js` rules derived from
  `standard-with-typescript` for the frontend TypeScript code
* the `frontend/stylelintrc.js` rules derived from
  `stylelint-config-sass-guidelines` for the frontend SCSS stylesheets

If PRs deviate from this coding style, they will break the CI/CD
pipeline and will not be merged until refactored to match the coding
rules.

In case your PR is failing from style guide issues try running `npm run
lint:fix` over your code - this will fix many syntax issues
automatically without breaking your code.

### Testing

```bash
npm test           # run all unit tests
npm run frisby     # run all API integration tests
npm run protractor # run all end-to-end tests
```

Pull Requests are verified to pass all the following test stages during
the
[continuous integration build](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/actions).
It is recommended that you run these tests on your local computer to
verify they pass before submitting a PR. New features should be
accompanied by an appropriate number of corresponding tests to verify
they behave as intended.

#### Unit tests

There is a full suite containing isolated unit tests

* for all client-side code in `frontend/src/app/**/*.spec.ts`
* for the server-side routes and libraries in `test/server/*Spec.js`

```bash
npm test
```

#### Integration tests

The integration tests in `test/api/*Spec.js` verify if the backend for
all normal use cases of the application works. All server-side
vulnerabilities are also tested.

```bash
npm run frisby
```

These tests automatically start a server and run the tests against it. A
working internet connection is recommended.

#### End-to-end tests

The e2e test suite in `test/e2e/*Spec.js` verifies if all client- and
server-side vulnerabilities are exploitable. It passes only when all
challenges are solvable on the score board.

```bash
npm run protractor
```

The end-to-end tests require a locally installed Google Chrome browser
and internet access to be able to pass.

If you have a web proxy configured via `HTTP_PROXY` environment
variable, the end-to-end tests will honor this setting. This can be
useful to e.g. run the tests through tools like
[OWASP ZAP](https://www.zaproxy.org/) or Burpsuite.

### Manually testing packaged distributions

During releases the application will be packaged into `.zip`/`.tgz`
archives for another easy setup method. When you contribute a change
that impacts what the application needs to include, make sure you test
this manually on your system.

```bash
npm install --production && grunt package
```

Then take the created archive from `/dist` and follow the steps
described above in
[Packaged Distributions](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop#packaged-distributions--)
to make sure nothing is broken or missing.

#### Smoke tests

The shell script `test/smoke/smoke-test.sh` performs some _very basic_
checks on the availability of expected UI content and API endpoints.
During CI/CD it is used to verify if the packaged distribution and
Docker image start properly.

To manually use it on a packaged distribution run the following in your
local repository clone root folder:

```bash
npm install --production && grunt package
cd dist && tar -zxf juice-shop-*.tgz && cd juice-shop_*
npm start &
../../test/smoke/smoke-test.sh http://localhost:3000
```

### Developer Certificate of Origin

> The Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) is a lightweight way for
> contributors to certify that they wrote or otherwise have the right to
> submit the code they are contributing to the project. Here is the full
> [text of the DCO](https://developercertificate.org/), reformatted for
> readability:
>
> > By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:
> >
> > (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
> > have the right to submit it under the open source license indicated
> > in the file; or
> >
> > (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
> > of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license
> > and I have the right under that license to submit that work with
> > modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the
> > same open source license (unless I am permitted to submit under a
> > different license), as indicated in the file; or
> >
> > (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
> > person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.
> >
> > (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
> > are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
> > personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
> > maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
> > this project or the open source license(s) involved.
>
> Contributors sign-off that they adhere to these requirements by adding
> a Signed-off-by line to commit messages.
>
> ```
> This is my commit message
>
> Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>
> ```
>
> Git even has a `-s` command line option to append this automatically
> to your commit message:
>
> ```
> $ git commit -s -m 'This is my commit message'
> ```
>
> [^2]

## Continuous integration & deployment

The CI/CD and release pipelines for OWASP Juice Shop are set up as
GitHub Action workflows:

<https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/actions>

### CI/CD Pipeline

On every push to GitHub, a workflow consisting of several jobs is
triggered on GitHub. Not only direct pushes to the `master` and
`develop` branches are built, but Pull Requests from other branches or
forks as well. This helps the project team to assess if a PR can be
safely merged into the codebase. While unit and integration tests are
executed on different combinations of Node.js and OS, the e2e tests are
only run on the officially preferred Node.js version
{{book.recommendedNodeVersion}} in order to avoid unnecessary feedback
delays.

![CI/CD Pipeline workflow on GitHub](img/ci-workflow.png)

### Release Pipeline

For tag-builds (i.e. versions to be released) another workflow is
triggered which packages the
[release-artifacts for Linux, MacOS and Windows for each supported Node.js version](../part1/running.md#from-pre-packaged-distribution)
and attach these to the release page on GitHub and also published Docker
images for the released version.

![Release Pipeline workflow on GitHub](img/release-workflow.png)

[^1]: <http://semver.org>
[^2]: <https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/>

Commit message:

Add section on how to use Angular development mode

part3/contribution.md, after:

# Contribute to development

If you would like to contribute to OWASP Juice Shop but need some idea
what task to address, the best place to look is in the GitHub issue
lists at <https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/issues>.

!["help wanted" label on GitHub](img/help_wanted-label.png)
!["good first issue" label on GitHub](img/good_first_issue-label.png)

* Issues labelled with **help wanted** indicate tasks where the project
  team would very much appreciate help from the community
* Issues labelled with **good first issue** indicate tasks that are
  isolated and not too hard to implement, so they are well-suited for
  new contributors

The following sections describe in detail the most important rules and
processes when contributing to the OWASP Juice Shop project.

## Tips for newcomers

If you are new to application development - particularly with Angular
and Express.js - it is recommended to read the
[Codebase 101](codebase.md) to get an overview what belongs where. It
will lower the entry barrier for you significantly.

## Version control

The project uses `git` as its version control system and GitHub as the
central server and collaboration platform. OWASP Juice Shop resides in
the following repository:

<https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop>

### Branching model

OWASP Juice Shop is maintained in a simplified
[Gitflow](http://jeffkreeftmeijer.com/2010/why-arent-you-using-git-flow/)
fashion, where all active development happens on the `develop` branch
while `master` is used to deploy stable versions to the
[Heroku demo instance](https://juice-shop.herokuapp.com) and later
create tagged releases from.

Feature branches are only used for long-term tasks that could jeopardize
regular releases from `develop` in the meantime. Likewise prototypes and
experiments must be developed on an individual branch or a distinct fork
of the entire project.

### Versioning

Any release from `master` is tagged with a unique version in the format
`vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, for example `v1.3.0` or `v4.1.2`.

> Given a version number `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, increment the:
>
> 1. `MAJOR` version when you make incompatible API changes,
> 2. `MINOR` version when you add functionality in a
>    backwards-compatible manner, and
> 3. `PATCH` version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.[^1]

The current version of the project (omitting the leading `v`) must be
manually maintained in the following three places:

* `/package.json` in the `"version"` property
* `/frontend/package.json` in the `"version"` property
* `/Dockerfile` in the `LABEL` named `org.opencontainers.image.version`

All other occurrences of the version (i.e. packaged releases & the menu
bar of the application itself) are resolved through the `"version"`
property of `/package.json` automatically.

### Pull requests

Using Git-Flow means that PRs have the highest chance of getting
accepted and merged when you open them on the `develop` branch of your
fork. That allows for some post-merge changes by the team without
directly compromising the `master` branch, which is supposed to hold
always be in a release-ready state.

It is usually not a big deal if you accidentally open a PR for the
`master` branch. GitHub added the possibility to change the target
branch for a PR afterwards some time ago.

In case you want to open a PR before actually being finished with your
work (e.g. because you'd like to see some intermediate CI/CD results)
please  
put either "`[WIP]`" or `[`:construction:`]` into the title. This will
signal the [WIP app](https://github.com/marketplace/wip) we're using on
GitHub to mark this PR as not ready for merge.

## Contribution guidelines

The minimum requirements for code contributions are:

1. The code _must_ be compliant with the configured ESLint rules based
   on the [JS Standard Code Style](http://standardjs.com).
2. All new and changed code _should_ have a corresponding unit and/or
   integration test.
3. New and changed challenges _must_ have a corresponding e2e test.
4. Linting, as well as all unit, integration and e2e tests _should_ pass
   locally before opening a Pull Request.
5. All Git commits within a PR _must_ be
   [signed off](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit#Documentation/git-commit.txt--s)
   to indicate the contributor's agreement with the
   [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org/).

### Linting

![JavaScript Style Guide](img/badge.svg)

```bash
npm run lint
```

The `npm run lint` script verifies code compliance with

* the `eslintrc.js` rules derived from `standard` for all server-side
  JavaScript code
* the `frontend/eslintrc.js` rules derived from
  `standard-with-typescript` for the frontend TypeScript code
* the `frontend/stylelintrc.js` rules derived from
  `stylelint-config-sass-guidelines` for the frontend SCSS stylesheets

If PRs deviate from this coding style, they will break the CI/CD
pipeline and will not be merged until refactored to match the coding
rules.

In case your PR is failing from style guide issues try running `npm run
lint:fix` over your code - this will fix many syntax issues
automatically without breaking your code.

### Testing

```bash
npm test           # run all unit tests
npm run frisby     # run all API integration tests
npm run protractor # run all end-to-end tests
```

Pull Requests are verified to pass all the following test stages during
the
[continuous integration build](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/actions).
It is recommended that you run these tests on your local computer to
verify they pass before submitting a PR. New features should be
accompanied by an appropriate number of corresponding tests to verify
they behave as intended.

#### Unit tests

There is a full suite containing isolated unit tests

* for all client-side code in `frontend/src/app/**/*.spec.ts`
* for the server-side routes and libraries in `test/server/*Spec.js`

```bash
npm test
```

#### Integration tests

The integration tests in `test/api/*Spec.js` verify if the backend for
all normal use cases of the application works. All server-side
vulnerabilities are also tested.

```bash
npm run frisby
```

These tests automatically start a server and run the tests against it. A
working internet connection is recommended.

#### End-to-end tests

The e2e test suite in `test/e2e/*Spec.js` verifies if all client- and
server-side vulnerabilities are exploitable. It passes only when all
challenges are solvable on the score board.

```bash
npm run protractor
```

The end-to-end tests require a locally installed Google Chrome browser
and internet access to be able to pass.

If you have a web proxy configured via `HTTP_PROXY` environment
variable, the end-to-end tests will honor this setting. This can be
useful to e.g. run the tests through tools like
[OWASP ZAP](https://www.zaproxy.org/) or Burpsuite.

### Manually testing packaged distributions

During releases the application will be packaged into `.zip`/`.tgz`
archives for another easy setup method. When you contribute a change
that impacts what the application needs to include, make sure you test
this manually on your system.

```bash
npm install --production && grunt package
```

Then take the created archive from `/dist` and follow the steps
described above in
[Packaged Distributions](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop#packaged-distributions--)
to make sure nothing is broken or missing.

#### Smoke tests

The shell script `test/smoke/smoke-test.sh` performs some _very basic_
checks on the availability of expected UI content and API endpoints.
During CI/CD it is used to verify if the packaged distribution and
Docker image start properly.

To manually use it on a packaged distribution run the following in your
local repository clone root folder:

```bash
npm install --production && grunt package
cd dist && tar -zxf juice-shop-*.tgz && cd juice-shop_*
npm start &
../../test/smoke/smoke-test.sh http://localhost:3000
```

### Development mode for Angular frontend

Running `npm install` over and over for frontend code or view changes
can be very time-consuming. Juice Shop can be run in a development mode
provided through Angular CLI to avoid this. Run `npm run serve` from the
root project folder and navigate to <http://localhost:4200> instead of
the usual port `3000`. Whenever you change code in the `frontend/src`
folder, the UI will recompile the affected bit and auto-reload the
browser window for you.

Please note that the backend is still running on <http://localhost:3000>
in this mode and that changes in the backend code are not automatically
applied.

### Developer Certificate of Origin

> The Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) is a lightweight way for
> contributors to certify that they wrote or otherwise have the right to
> submit the code they are contributing to the project. Here is the full
> [text of the DCO](https://developercertificate.org/), reformatted for
> readability:
>
> > By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:
> >
> > (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
> > have the right to submit it under the open source license indicated
> > in the file; or
> >
> > (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
> > of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license
> > and I have the right under that license to submit that work with
> > modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the
> > same open source license (unless I am permitted to submit under a
> > different license), as indicated in the file; or
> >
> > (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
> > person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.
> >
> > (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
> > are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
> > personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
> > maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
> > this project or the open source license(s) involved.
>
> Contributors sign-off that they adhere to these requirements by adding
> a Signed-off-by line to commit messages.
>
> ```
> This is my commit message
>
> Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>
> ```
>
> Git even has a `-s` command line option to append this automatically
> to your commit message:
>
> ```
> $ git commit -s -m 'This is my commit message'
> ```
>
> [^2]

## Continuous integration & deployment

The CI/CD and release pipelines for OWASP Juice Shop are set up as
GitHub Action workflows:

<https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/actions>

### CI/CD Pipeline

On every push to GitHub, a workflow consisting of several jobs is
triggered on GitHub. Not only direct pushes to the `master` and
`develop` branches are built, but Pull Requests from other branches or
forks as well. This helps the project team to assess if a PR can be
safely merged into the codebase. While unit and integration tests are
executed on different combinations of Node.js and OS, the e2e tests are
only run on the officially preferred Node.js version
{{book.recommendedNodeVersion}} in order to avoid unnecessary feedback
delays.

![CI/CD Pipeline workflow on GitHub](img/ci-workflow.png)

### Release Pipeline

For tag-builds (i.e. versions to be released) another workflow is
triggered which packages the
[release-artifacts for Linux, MacOS and Windows for each supported Node.js version](../part1/running.md#from-pre-packaged-distribution)
and attach these to the release page on GitHub and also published Docker
images for the released version.

![Release Pipeline workflow on GitHub](img/release-workflow.png)

[^1]: <http://semver.org>
[^2]: <https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/>
