docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/insecure-deserialization.adoc, before:

= Insecure Deserialization[[_rce]]

include::../attributes.adoc[]

____
Serialization is the process of turning some object into a data format
that can be restored later. People often serialize objects in order to
save them to storage, or to send as part of communications.
Deserialization is the reverse of that process -- taking data
structured from some format, and rebuilding it into an object. Today,
the most popular data format for serializing data is JSON. Before
that, it was XML.

However, many programming languages offer a native capability for
serializing objects. These native formats usually offer more features
than JSON or XML, including customizability of the serialization
process. Unfortunately, the features of these native deserialization
mechanisms can be repurposed for malicious effect when operating on
untrusted data. Attacks against deserializers have been found to allow
denial-of-service, access control, and remote code execution
attacks.footnote:3_6_1[https://owasp.org/www-project-cheat-sheets/cheatsheets/Deserialization_Cheat_Sheet.html]
____

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Blocked RCE DoS
| Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Successful RCE DoS
| Perform a Remote Code Execution that occupies the server for a while without using infinite loops.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

ℹ️ _Please note that both RCE challenges described below are *not
available* when running the Juice Shop in either a Docker container or
on a Heroku dyno! The deserialization actually happens in a sandbox with
a timeout, but with sufficient skills an attacker could break out of the
sandbox and actually harm the underlying system. While it is unfortunate
to not have RCE challenges on containerized environments, this
illustrates how hard it is to protect against deserialization attacks
except for not using it at all._

== Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever

____
Code Injection is the general term for attack types which consist of
injecting code that is then interpreted/executed by the application.
This type of attack exploits poor handling of untrusted data. These
types of attacks are usually made possible due to a lack of proper
input/output data validation, for example:

* allowed characters (standard regular expressions classes or custom)
* data format
* amount of expected data

Code Injection differs from Command Injection in that an attacker is
only limited by the functionality of the injected language itself. If
an attacker is able to inject PHP code into an application and have it
executed, he is only limited by what PHP is capable of. Command
injection consists of leveraging existing code to execute commands,
usually within the context of a shell.footnote:3_6_2[https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Code_Injection]

The ability to trigger arbitrary code execution from one machine on
another (especially via a wide-area network such as the Internet) is
often referred to as remote code execution.footnote:3_6_3[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrary_code_execution]
____

* The feature you need to exploit for this challenge is not directly
advertised anywhere.
* As the Juice Shop is written in pure Javascript, there is one data
format that is most probably used for serialization.
* You should try to make the server busy for all eternity.
* The challenge will be solved if you manage to trigger the protection
of the application against a very specific DoS attack vector.
* Similar to the
xref:part2/injection.adoc#_let_the_server_sleep_for_some_time[Let the server sleep for some time]
challenge (which accepted nothing but NoSQL Injection as a solution)
this challenge will only accept proper RCE as a solution. It cannot be
solved by simply hammering the server with requests. __That__ would
probably just __kill__ your server instance.

== Perform a Remote Code Execution that occupies the server for a while without using infinite loops

____
An infinite loop (or endless loop) is a sequence of instructions in a
computer program which loops endlessly, either due to the loop having
no terminating condition, having one that can never be met, or one
that causes the loop to start over.footnote:3_6_4[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinite_loop]
____

* This challenge uses the same leverage point as
<<_perform_a_remote_code_execution_that_would_keep_a_less_hardened_application_busy_forever,Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever>>.
* The application has a protection against too many iterations (i.e.
_infinite loops_) which your attack must not trigger in order to solve
this challenge.

Commit message:

Add hints and solution for "Memory Bomb" challenge

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/insecure-deserialization.adoc, after:

= Insecure Deserialization[[_rce]]

include::../attributes.adoc[]

____
Serialization is the process of turning some object into a data format
that can be restored later. People often serialize objects in order to
save them to storage, or to send as part of communications.
Deserialization is the reverse of that process -- taking data
structured from some format, and rebuilding it into an object. Today,
the most popular data format for serializing data is JSON. Before
that, it was XML.

However, many programming languages offer a native capability for
serializing objects. These native formats usually offer more features
than JSON or XML, including customizability of the serialization
process. Unfortunately, the features of these native deserialization
mechanisms can be repurposed for malicious effect when operating on
untrusted data. Attacks against deserializers have been found to allow
denial-of-service, access control, and remote code execution
attacks.footnote:3_6_1[https://owasp.org/www-project-cheat-sheets/cheatsheets/Deserialization_Cheat_Sheet.html]
____

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Blocked RCE DoS
| Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Memory Bomb
| Drop some explosive data into a vulnerable file-handling endpoint.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Successful RCE DoS
| Perform a Remote Code Execution that occupies the server for a while without using infinite loops.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

ℹ️ _Please note that both RCE challenges described below are *not
available* when running the Juice Shop in either a Docker container or
on a Heroku dyno! The deserialization actually happens in a sandbox with
a timeout, but with sufficient skills an attacker could break out of the
sandbox and actually harm the underlying system. While it is unfortunate
to not have RCE challenges on containerized environments, this
illustrates how hard it is to protect against deserialization attacks
except for not using it at all._

== Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever

____
Code Injection is the general term for attack types which consist of
injecting code that is then interpreted/executed by the application.
This type of attack exploits poor handling of untrusted data. These
types of attacks are usually made possible due to a lack of proper
input/output data validation, for example:

* allowed characters (standard regular expressions classes or custom)
* data format
* amount of expected data

Code Injection differs from Command Injection in that an attacker is
only limited by the functionality of the injected language itself. If
an attacker is able to inject PHP code into an application and have it
executed, he is only limited by what PHP is capable of. Command
injection consists of leveraging existing code to execute commands,
usually within the context of a shell.footnote:3_6_2[https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Code_Injection]

The ability to trigger arbitrary code execution from one machine on
another (especially via a wide-area network such as the Internet) is
often referred to as remote code execution.footnote:3_6_3[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrary_code_execution]
____

* The feature you need to exploit for this challenge is not directly
advertised anywhere.
* As the Juice Shop is written in pure Javascript, there is one data
format that is most probably used for serialization.
* You should try to make the server busy for all eternity.
* The challenge will be solved if you manage to trigger the protection
of the application against a very specific DoS attack vector.
* Similar to the
xref:part2/injection.adoc#_let_the_server_sleep_for_some_time[Let the server sleep for some time]
challenge (which accepted nothing but NoSQL Injection as a solution)
this challenge will only accept proper RCE as a solution. It cannot be
solved by simply hammering the server with requests. __That__ would
probably just __kill__ your server instance.

== Drop some explosive data into a vulnerable file-handling endpoint

* This one is actually similar to the xref:part2/xxe.adoc#_retrieve_the_content_of_cwindowssystem_ini_or_etcpasswd_from_the_server[XXE DoS challenge] in every way except the data format being (ab)used.
* You can only solve this challenge by keeping the server busy for >2sec
with your attack.
* The effectiveness of attack payloads for this challenge might depend
on the operating system the Juice Shop is running on.

== Perform a Remote Code Execution that occupies the server for a while without using infinite loops

____
An infinite loop (or endless loop) is a sequence of instructions in a
computer program which loops endlessly, either due to the loop having
no terminating condition, having one that can never be met, or one
that causes the loop to start over.footnote:3_6_4[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinite_loop]
____

* This challenge uses the same leverage point as
<<_perform_a_remote_code_execution_that_would_keep_a_less_hardened_application_busy_forever,Perform a Remote Code Execution that would keep a less hardened application busy forever>>.
* The application has a protection against too many iterations (i.e.
_infinite loops_) which your attack must not trigger in order to solve
this challenge.
