docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/miscellaneous.adoc, before:

= Miscellaneous

include::../attributes.adoc[]

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Bully Chatbot
| Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot.
| ⭐

| Mass Dispel
| Close multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications in one go.
| ⭐

| Privacy Policy
| Read our privacy policy.
| ⭐

| Score Board
| Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page.
| ⭐

| Security Policy
| Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action.
| ⭐⭐

| Wallet Depletion
| Withdraw more ETH from the new wallet than you deposited.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

== Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot

This challenge is about nagging the support chatbot to hand out a coupon
code that can subsequently be used to get a discount during the checkout
process.

* The bot is reluctant to give you a coupon as it's coming up with
various excuses for not giving you one
* Asking over and over again like a little kid might actually help you
succeed in this case

== Close multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications in one go

This "challenge" is nothing more than an opportunity to learn about a convenience feature that allows users to close
multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications at once.

* This challenge is most easily solvable immediately xref:part1/running.adoc#_self_healing_feature[after a server restart]
* You can find all the information you need to solve this challenge in the xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_challenge_tracking[Challenge tracking] chapter
* Alternatively you can also inspect any "Challenge solved"-notification in your browser to understand its convenience feature

== Read our privacy policy

____
A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law)
that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses,
discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. It fulfills a
legal requirement to protect a customer or client's privacy. Personal
information can be anything that can be used to identify an
individual, not limited to the person's name, address, date of birth,
marital status, contact information, ID issue, and expiry date,
financial records, credit information, medical history, where one
travels, and intentions to acquire goods and services. In the case of
a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on
how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it
collects. It informs the client what specific information is
collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners,
or sold to other firms or enterprises. Privacy policies typically
represent a broader, more generalized treatment, as opposed to data
use statements, which tend to be more detailed and specific.

The exact contents of a certain privacy policy will depend upon the
applicable law and may need to address requirements across
geographical boundaries and legal jurisdictions. Most countries have
their own legislation and guidelines of who is covered, what
information can be collected, and what it can be used for. In general,
data protection laws in Europe cover the private sector as well as the
public sector. Their privacy laws apply not only to government
operations but also to private enterprises and commercial
transactions.footnote:3_7_1[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy]
____

* When you work with the application you will most likely solve this
challenge in the process
* Any automated crawling or spidering tool you use might solve this
challenge for you
* There is no real hacking involved here

== Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page

This challenge was already covered in
xref:part2/score-board.adoc#_finding_the_score_board[Finding the Score Board] at the beginning of
xref:part2/README.adoc#_challenge_hunting[Part II - Challenge hunting].

== Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action

____
The term "white hat" in Internet slang refers to an ethical computer
hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in penetration
testing and in other testing methodologies to ensure the security of
an organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term meant
to imply a broader category than just penetration testing. Contrasted
with black hat, a malicious hacker, the name comes from Western films,
where heroic and antagonistic cowboys might traditionally wear a white
and a black hat respectively.footnote:3_7_2[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_hat_(computer_security)]
____

* This challenge asks you to act like an ethical hacker
* As one of the good guys, would you just start attacking an application
without consent of the owner?
* You also might want to read the security policy or any bug bounty
program that is in place

== Withdraw more ETH from the new wallet than you deposited

// TODO Add hints for "Wallet Depletion" challenge

Commit message:

Add placeholders for additional hints/solutions

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/miscellaneous.adoc, after:

= Miscellaneous

include::../attributes.adoc[]

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Bully Chatbot
| Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot.
| ⭐

| Mass Dispel
| Close multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications in one go.
| ⭐

| Privacy Policy
| Read our privacy policy.
| ⭐

| Score Board
| Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page.
| ⭐

| Security Advisory
| The Juice Shop is susceptible to a known vulnerability in a library, for which an advisory has already been issued, marking the Juice Shop as _known affected_. A fix is still pending. Inform the shop about a suitable checksum as proof that you did your due diligence.
| ⭐⭐⭐

| Security Policy
| Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action.
| ⭐⭐

| Wallet Depletion
| Withdraw more ETH from the new wallet than you deposited.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

== Receive a coupon code from the support chatbot

This challenge is about nagging the support chatbot to hand out a coupon
code that can subsequently be used to get a discount during the checkout
process.

* The bot is reluctant to give you a coupon as it's coming up with
various excuses for not giving you one
* Asking over and over again like a little kid might actually help you
succeed in this case

== Close multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications in one go

This "challenge" is nothing more than an opportunity to learn about a convenience feature that allows users to close
multiple "Challenge solved"-notifications at once.

* This challenge is most easily solvable immediately xref:part1/running.adoc#_self_healing_feature[after a server restart]
* You can find all the information you need to solve this challenge in the xref:part1/challenges.adoc#_challenge_tracking[Challenge tracking] chapter
* Alternatively you can also inspect any "Challenge solved"-notification in your browser to understand its convenience feature

== Read our privacy policy

____
A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law)
that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses,
discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. It fulfills a
legal requirement to protect a customer or client's privacy. Personal
information can be anything that can be used to identify an
individual, not limited to the person's name, address, date of birth,
marital status, contact information, ID issue, and expiry date,
financial records, credit information, medical history, where one
travels, and intentions to acquire goods and services. In the case of
a business it is often a statement that declares a party's policy on
how it collects, stores, and releases personal information it
collects. It informs the client what specific information is
collected, and whether it is kept confidential, shared with partners,
or sold to other firms or enterprises. Privacy policies typically
represent a broader, more generalized treatment, as opposed to data
use statements, which tend to be more detailed and specific.

The exact contents of a certain privacy policy will depend upon the
applicable law and may need to address requirements across
geographical boundaries and legal jurisdictions. Most countries have
their own legislation and guidelines of who is covered, what
information can be collected, and what it can be used for. In general,
data protection laws in Europe cover the private sector as well as the
public sector. Their privacy laws apply not only to government
operations but also to private enterprises and commercial
transactions.footnote:3_7_1[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy]
____

* When you work with the application you will most likely solve this
challenge in the process
* Any automated crawling or spidering tool you use might solve this
challenge for you
* There is no real hacking involved here

== Find the carefully hidden 'Score Board' page

This challenge was already covered in
xref:part2/score-board.adoc#_finding_the_score_board[Finding the Score Board] at the beginning of
xref:part2/README.adoc#_challenge_hunting[Part II - Challenge hunting].

== The Juice Shop is susceptible to a known vulnerability in a library for which an advisory has already been issued

// TODO Add hints for "Security Advisory" challenge

== Behave like any "white hat" should before getting into the action

____
The term "white hat" in Internet slang refers to an ethical computer
hacker, or a computer security expert, who specializes in penetration
testing and in other testing methodologies to ensure the security of
an organization's information systems. Ethical hacking is a term meant
to imply a broader category than just penetration testing. Contrasted
with black hat, a malicious hacker, the name comes from Western films,
where heroic and antagonistic cowboys might traditionally wear a white
and a black hat respectively.footnote:3_7_2[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_hat_(computer_security)]
____

* This challenge asks you to act like an ethical hacker
* As one of the good guys, would you just start attacking an application
without consent of the owner?
* You also might want to read the security policy or any bug bounty
program that is in place

== Withdraw more ETH from the new wallet than you deposited

// TODO Add hints for "Wallet Depletion" challenge
