docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/sensitive-data-exposure.adoc, before:

= Sensitive Data Exposure

include::../attributes.adoc[]

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Access Log
| Gain access to any access log file of the server.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Confidential Document
| Access a confidential document.
| ⭐

| Email Leak
| Perform an unwanted information disclosure by accessing data cross-domain.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Exposed Metrics
| Find the endpoint that serves usage data to be scraped by a popular monitoring system.
| ⭐

| Forgotten Developer Backup
| Access a developer's forgotten backup file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Forgotten Sales Backup
| Access a salesman's forgotten backup file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| GDPR Data Theft
| Steal someone else's personal data without using Injection.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Leaked Access Logs
| Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to. (Creating a new account with the same password does not qualify as a solution.)
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Leaked Unsafe Product
| Identify an unsafe product that was removed from the shop and inform the shop which ingredients are dangerous.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Login Amy
| Log in with Amy's original user credentials. (This could take 93.83 billion trillion trillion centuries to brute force, but luckily she did not read the "One Important Final Note")
| ⭐⭐⭐

| Login MC SafeSearch
| Log in with MC SafeSearch's original user credentials without applying SQL Injection or any other bypass.
| ⭐⭐

| Meta Geo Stalking
| Determine the answer to John's security question by looking at an upload of him to the Photo Wall and use it to reset his password via the Forgot Password mechanism.
| ⭐⭐

| Misplaced Signature File
| Access a misplaced SIEM signature file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| NFT Takeover
| Take over the wallet containing our official Soul Bound Token (NFT).
| ⭐⭐

| Reset Uvogin's Password
| Reset Uvogin's password via the Forgot Password mechanism with _his original answer_ to his security question.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Retrieve Blueprint
| Deprive the shop of earnings by downloading the blueprint for one of its products.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Visual Geo Stalking
| Determine the answer to Emma's security question by looking at an upload of her to the Photo Wall and use it to reset her password via the Forgot Password mechanism.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

== Gain access to any access log file of the server

____
An access log is a list of all the requests for individual files that
people have requested from a Web site. These files will include the
HTML files and their imbedded graphic images and any other associated
files that get transmitted. The access log (sometimes referred to as
the "raw data") can be analyzed and summarized by another program.

In general, an access log can be analyzed to tell you:

The number of visitors (unique first-time requests) to a home page The
origin of the visitors in terms of their associated server's domain
name (for example, visitors from .edu, .com, and .gov sites and from
the online services) How many requests for each page at the site,
which can be presented with the pages with most requests listed first
Usage patterns in terms of time of day, day of week, and seasonally
Access log keepers and analyzers can be found as shareware on the Web
or may come with a Web server.footnote:3_10_1[https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/access-log]
____

The Juice Shop application server is writing access logs, which can
contain interesting information that competitors might also be
interested in.

* Normally, server log files are written to disk on server side and are
not accessible from the outside.
* Which raises the question: Who would want a server access log to be
accessible through a web application?
* One particular file found in the folder you might already have found
during the
<<_access_a_confidential_document,Access a confidential document>>
challenge might give you an idea who is interested in such a public
exposure.
* Drilling down one level into the file system might not be sufficient.

== Access a confidential document

Somewhere in the application you can find a file that contains sensitive
information about some - potentially hostile - takeovers the Juice Shop
top management has planned.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file you are looking for is not protected in any way. Once you
_found it_ you can also _access it_.

== Perform an unwanted information disclosure by accessing data cross-domain

Somewhere in the application there is an API endpoint which will allow
data to be accessed cross domain. Usually the same-origin policy would
prevent this but this endpoint has a special feature enabled which will
allow cross domain access under certain circumstances.

* Try to find and attack an endpoint that responds with user
information. SQL Injection is not the solution here.
* What ways are there to access data from a web application
cross-domain?
* This challenge uses an old way which is no longer recommended.

== Find the endpoint that serves usage data to be scraped by a popular monitoring system

The popular monitoring system being referred to in the challenge
description is https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus[Prometheus]:

____
Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit
originally built at SoundCloud. Since its inception in 2012, many
companies and organizations have adopted Prometheus, and the project
has a very active developer and user community. It is now a standalone
open source project and maintained independently of any company. To
emphasize this, and to clarify the project's governance structure,
Prometheus joined the Cloud Native Computing Foundation in 2016 as the
second hosted project, after Kubernetes. footnote:3_10_6[https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/]
____

* The Juice Shop serves its metrics on the default path expected by
Prometheus
* Guessing the path is probably just as quick as taking the RTFM route
via https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps

____
RTFM is an initialism for the expression "read the fucking manual".
footnote:3_10_7[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RTFM]
____

== Access a developer's forgotten backup file

During an emergency incident and the hotfix that followed, a developer
accidentally pasted an application configuration file into the wrong
place. Downloading this file will not only solve the _Access a
developer's forgotten backup file_ challenge but might also prove
crucial in several other challenges later on.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file is not directly accessible because a security mechanism
prevents access to it.
* You need to trick the security mechanism into thinking that the file
has a valid file type.
* For this challenge there is only _one approach_ to pull this trick.

== Access a salesman's forgotten backup file

A salesperson as accidentally uploaded a list of (by now outdated)
coupon codes to the application. Downloading this file will not only
solve the _Access a salesman's forgotten backup file_ challenge but
might also prove useful in another challenge later on.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file is not directly accessible because a security mechanism
prevents access to it.
* You need to trick the security mechanism into thinking that the file
has a valid file type.

== Steal someone else's personal data without using Injection

In order to comply with GDPR, the Juice Shop offers a _Request Data
Export_ function for its registered customers. It is possible to exploit
a flaw in the feature to retrieve more data than intended. Injection
attacks will not count to solve this one.

* You should not try to steal data from a "vanilla" user who never even
ordered something at the shop.
* As everything about this data export functionality happens on the
server-side, it won't be possible to just tamper with some HTTP
requests to solve this challenge.
* Inspecting various server responses which contain user-specific data
might give you a clue about the mistake the developers made.

== Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to

The company behind the Juice Shop failed miserably at implementing any
data loss prevention measures for itself. This challenge simulates a
seemingly harmless data leak that - upon closer inspection -
subsequently allows an account takeover.

____
*Data loss prevention software* detects potential data breaches/data
ex-filtration transmissions and prevents them by monitoring, detecting
and blocking sensitive data while in use (endpoint actions), in motion
(network traffic), and at rest (data storage).

The terms "data loss" and "data leak" are related and are often used
interchangeably. Data loss incidents turn into data leak incidents in
cases where media containing sensitive information is lost and
subsequently acquired by an unauthorized party. However, a data leak
is possible without losing the data on the originating side. Other
terms associated with data leakage prevention are information leak
detection and prevention (ILDP), information leak prevention (ILP),
content monitoring and filtering (CMF), information protection and
control (IPC) and extrusion prevention system (EPS), as opposed to
intrusion prevention system. footnote:3_10_2[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_loss_prevention_software]
____

* As the challenge name implies, your task is to find some leaked access
logs which happen to have a fairly common format.
* A very popular help platform for developers might contain breadcrumbs
towards solving this challenge
* The actual log file was copied & paste onto a platform often used to
share data quickly with externals or even just internal peers.
* Once you found and harvested the important piece of information from
the log, you could employ a technique called _Password Spraying_ to
solve this challenge.

____
Password spraying refers to the attack method that takes a large
number of usernames and loops them with a single password. We can use
multiple iterations using a number of different passwords, but the
number of passwords attempted is usually low when compared to the
number of users attempted. This method avoids password lockouts, and
it is often more effective at uncovering weak passwords than targeting
specific users.footnote:3_10_5[https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/password-spraying/]
____

== Identify an unsafe product that was removed from the shop and inform the shop which ingredients are dangerous

Similar to
<<_dumpster_dive_the_internet_for_a_leaked_password_and_log_in_to_the_original_user_account_it_belongs_to,Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to>>
this challenge further highlights the risks from a lack of data loss
prevention.

* You must first identify the "unsafe product" which ist not available
any more in the shop.
* Solving the
xref:part2/injection.adoc#_order_the_christmas_special_offer_of_2014[Order the Christmas special offer of 2014]
challenge might give it to you as by-catch.
* The actual data you need to solve this challenge was leaked on the
same platform that was involved in
<<_dumpster_dive_the_internet_for_a_leaked_password_and_log_in_to_the_original_user_account_it_belongs_to,Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to>>
* Google is a particularly good accomplice in this challenge.

== Log in with Amy's original user credentials

This challenge is similar to
xref:part2/broken-authentication.adoc#_log_in_with_the_administrators_user_credentials_without_previously_changing_them_or_applying_sql_injection[Log in with the administrators user credentials without previously changing them or applying SQL Injection]
in the sense that only using her original credentials will work as a
challenge solutions.

image::part2/amy_and_kif.jpg[Amy and Kif Kroker]

* As with so many other characters from
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0149460/[Futurama] this challenge is of
course about logging in as Amy from that show. In the picture above
you see her together with her alien husband Kif.
* The challenge description contains a few sentences which give away
some information how Amy decided to strengthen her password.
* Obviously, Amy - being a little dimwitted - did not put nearly enough
effort and creativity into the password selection process.

== Log in with MC SafeSearch's original user credentials

Another user login challenge where only the original password is
accepted as a solution. Employing SQL Injection or other attacks does
not count.

* MC SafeSearch is a rapper who produced the song
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y["Protect Ya' Passwordz"]
which explains password & sensitive data protection very nicely.
* After watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y[the music video of this song],
you should agree that even ⭐⭐ is a slightly exaggerated difficulty
rating for this challenge.
+
image::part2/protect-ya-passwordz.jpg["Protect Ya Passwordz",link=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y]

== Determine the answer to John's security question

Who would have guessed that a simple walk in the park could lead to an
account compromise. People these days are not careful with what they
post online and are not aware of the possible consequences it can have
when people exploit that.

* Make use of tools that can inspect the metadata of images.
* Use this information to answer the security question of the John, who
enjoys hiking in the park.

== Access a misplaced SIEM signature file.

____
Security information and event management (SIEM) technology supports
threat detection and security incident response through the real-time
collection and historical analysis of security events from a wide
variety of event and contextual data sources. It also supports
compliance reporting and incident investigation through analysis of
historical data from these sources. The core capabilities of SIEM
technology are a broad scope of event collection and the ability to
correlate and analyze events across disparate sources.footnote:3_10_3[https://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/security-information-and-event-management-siem/]
____

The misplaced signature file is actually a rule file for
https://github.com/Neo23x0/sigma[Sigma], a generic signature format
for SIEM systems:

____
Sigma is a generic and open signature format that allows you to
describe relevant log events in a straight forward manner. The rule
format is very flexible, easy to write and applicable to any type of
log file. The main purpose of this project is to provide a structured
form in which researchers or analysts can describe their once
developed detection methods and make them shareable with others.

Sigma is for log files what Snort is for network traffic and YARA is
for files.footnote:3_10_4[https://github.com/Neo23x0/sigma#what-is-sigma]
____

* If you solved one of the other four file access challenges, you
already know where the SIEM signature file is located
* Simply reuse the trick that already worked for the files above

== Take over the wallet containing our official Soul Bound Token

// TODO Add hints for "NFT Takeover" challenge

== Reset Uvogin's password via the Forgot Password mechanism

With the amount of personal information that people tend to reveal
online, security questions are hardly reliable anymore.

* People often reuse aliases online. You might be able to find something
by looking online for Uvogin's name or slight variations of it based
on his unique writing habits
* You might be able to find some existing OSINT tools to help you in
this investigation

== Deprive the shop of earnings by downloading the blueprint for one of its products

Why waste money for a product when you can just as well get your hands
on its blueprint in order to make it yourself?

* The product you might want to give a closer look is the _OWASP Juice
Shop Logo (3D-printed)_
* For your inconvenience the blueprint was _not_ misplaced into the same
place like so many others forgotten files covered in this chapter

ℹ️ _If you are running the Juice Shop with a custom theme and product
inventory, the product to inspect will be a different one. The tooltip
on the Score Board will tell you which one to look into._

== Determine the answer to Emma's security question

It is also possible to determine where a picture was taken by looking at
visual clues within the image. A certain user has uploaded a picture of
his old workplace. Take a look at what his security question is and see
if you can find the answer by looking at his uploaded image.

* Look at visual clues to determine what company is shown in the picture
and use that to answer the security question.

Commit message:

Add placeholders for additional hints/solutions

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/part2/sensitive-data-exposure.adoc, after:

= Sensitive Data Exposure

include::../attributes.adoc[]

[discrete]
== Challenges covered in this chapter

|===
| Name | Description | Difficulty

| Access Log
| Gain access to any access log file of the server.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Confidential Document
| Access a confidential document.
| ⭐

| Email Leak
| Perform an unwanted information disclosure by accessing data cross-domain.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Exposed Credentials
| A developer was careless with hardcoding unused, but still valid credentials for a testing account on the client-side.
| ⭐⭐

| Exposed Metrics
| Find the endpoint that serves usage data to be scraped by a popular monitoring system.
| ⭐

| Forgotten Developer Backup
| Access a developer's forgotten backup file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Forgotten Sales Backup
| Access a salesman's forgotten backup file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| GDPR Data Theft
| Steal someone else's personal data without using Injection.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Leaked Access Logs
| Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to. (Creating a new account with the same password does not qualify as a solution.)
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Leaked API Key
| Inform the shop about a leaked API key. (Mention the exact key in your comment)
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Leaked Unsafe Product
| Identify an unsafe product that was removed from the shop and inform the shop which ingredients are dangerous.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Login Amy
| Log in with Amy's original user credentials. (This could take 93.83 billion trillion trillion centuries to brute force, but luckily she did not read the "One Important Final Note")
| ⭐⭐⭐

| Login MC SafeSearch
| Log in with MC SafeSearch's original user credentials without applying SQL Injection or any other bypass.
| ⭐⭐

| Meta Geo Stalking
| Determine the answer to John's security question by looking at an upload of him to the Photo Wall and use it to reset his password via the Forgot Password mechanism.
| ⭐⭐

| Misplaced Signature File
| Access a misplaced SIEM signature file.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| NFT Takeover
| Take over the wallet containing our official Soul Bound Token (NFT).
| ⭐⭐

| Reset Uvogin's Password
| Reset Uvogin's password via the Forgot Password mechanism with _his original answer_ to his security question.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Retrieve Blueprint
| Deprive the shop of earnings by downloading the blueprint for one of its products.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

| Visual Geo Stalking
| Determine the answer to Emma's security question by looking at an upload of her to the Photo Wall and use it to reset her password via the Forgot Password mechanism.
| ⭐⭐⭐⭐
|===

== Gain access to any access log file of the server

____
An access log is a list of all the requests for individual files that
people have requested from a Web site. These files will include the
HTML files and their imbedded graphic images and any other associated
files that get transmitted. The access log (sometimes referred to as
the "raw data") can be analyzed and summarized by another program.

In general, an access log can be analyzed to tell you:

The number of visitors (unique first-time requests) to a home page The
origin of the visitors in terms of their associated server's domain
name (for example, visitors from .edu, .com, and .gov sites and from
the online services) How many requests for each page at the site,
which can be presented with the pages with most requests listed first
Usage patterns in terms of time of day, day of week, and seasonally
Access log keepers and analyzers can be found as shareware on the Web
or may come with a Web server.footnote:3_10_1[https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/access-log]
____

The Juice Shop application server is writing access logs, which can
contain interesting information that competitors might also be
interested in.

* Normally, server log files are written to disk on server side and are
not accessible from the outside.
* Which raises the question: Who would want a server access log to be
accessible through a web application?
* One particular file found in the folder you might already have found
during the
<<_access_a_confidential_document,Access a confidential document>>
challenge might give you an idea who is interested in such a public
exposure.
* Drilling down one level into the file system might not be sufficient.

== Access a confidential document

Somewhere in the application you can find a file that contains sensitive
information about some - potentially hostile - takeovers the Juice Shop
top management has planned.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file you are looking for is not protected in any way. Once you
_found it_ you can also _access it_.

== Perform an unwanted information disclosure by accessing data cross-domain

Somewhere in the application there is an API endpoint which will allow
data to be accessed cross domain. Usually the same-origin policy would
prevent this but this endpoint has a special feature enabled which will
allow cross domain access under certain circumstances.

* Try to find and attack an endpoint that responds with user
information. SQL Injection is not the solution here.
* What ways are there to access data from a web application
cross-domain?
* This challenge uses an old way which is no longer recommended.

== A developer was careless with hardcoding unused but still valid credentials

// TODO Add hints for "Exposed Credentials" challenge

== Find the endpoint that serves usage data to be scraped by a popular monitoring system

The popular monitoring system being referred to in the challenge
description is https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus[Prometheus]:

____
Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit
originally built at SoundCloud. Since its inception in 2012, many
companies and organizations have adopted Prometheus, and the project
has a very active developer and user community. It is now a standalone
open source project and maintained independently of any company. To
emphasize this, and to clarify the project's governance structure,
Prometheus joined the Cloud Native Computing Foundation in 2016 as the
second hosted project, after Kubernetes. footnote:3_10_6[https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/]
____

* The Juice Shop serves its metrics on the default path expected by
Prometheus
* Guessing the path is probably just as quick as taking the RTFM route
via https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps

____
RTFM is an initialism for the expression "read the fucking manual".
footnote:3_10_7[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RTFM]
____

== Access a developer's forgotten backup file

During an emergency incident and the hotfix that followed, a developer
accidentally pasted an application configuration file into the wrong
place. Downloading this file will not only solve the _Access a
developer's forgotten backup file_ challenge but might also prove
crucial in several other challenges later on.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file is not directly accessible because a security mechanism
prevents access to it.
* You need to trick the security mechanism into thinking that the file
has a valid file type.
* For this challenge there is only _one approach_ to pull this trick.

== Access a salesman's forgotten backup file

A salesperson as accidentally uploaded a list of (by now outdated)
coupon codes to the application. Downloading this file will not only
solve the _Access a salesman's forgotten backup file_ challenge but
might also prove useful in another challenge later on.

* Analyze and tamper with links in the application that deliver a file
directly.
* The file is not directly accessible because a security mechanism
prevents access to it.
* You need to trick the security mechanism into thinking that the file
has a valid file type.

== Steal someone else's personal data without using Injection

In order to comply with GDPR, the Juice Shop offers a _Request Data
Export_ function for its registered customers. It is possible to exploit
a flaw in the feature to retrieve more data than intended. Injection
attacks will not count to solve this one.

* You should not try to steal data from a "vanilla" user who never even
ordered something at the shop.
* As everything about this data export functionality happens on the
server-side, it won't be possible to just tamper with some HTTP
requests to solve this challenge.
* Inspecting various server responses which contain user-specific data
might give you a clue about the mistake the developers made.

== Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to

The company behind the Juice Shop failed miserably at implementing any
data loss prevention measures for itself. This challenge simulates a
seemingly harmless data leak that - upon closer inspection -
subsequently allows an account takeover.

____
*Data loss prevention software* detects potential data breaches/data
ex-filtration transmissions and prevents them by monitoring, detecting
and blocking sensitive data while in use (endpoint actions), in motion
(network traffic), and at rest (data storage).

The terms "data loss" and "data leak" are related and are often used
interchangeably. Data loss incidents turn into data leak incidents in
cases where media containing sensitive information is lost and
subsequently acquired by an unauthorized party. However, a data leak
is possible without losing the data on the originating side. Other
terms associated with data leakage prevention are information leak
detection and prevention (ILDP), information leak prevention (ILP),
content monitoring and filtering (CMF), information protection and
control (IPC) and extrusion prevention system (EPS), as opposed to
intrusion prevention system. footnote:3_10_2[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_loss_prevention_software]
____

* As the challenge name implies, your task is to find some leaked access
logs which happen to have a fairly common format.
* A very popular help platform for developers might contain breadcrumbs
towards solving this challenge
* The actual log file was copied & paste onto a platform often used to
share data quickly with externals or even just internal peers.
* Once you found and harvested the important piece of information from
the log, you could employ a technique called _Password Spraying_ to
solve this challenge.

____
Password spraying refers to the attack method that takes a large
number of usernames and loops them with a single password. We can use
multiple iterations using a number of different passwords, but the
number of passwords attempted is usually low when compared to the
number of users attempted. This method avoids password lockouts, and
it is often more effective at uncovering weak passwords than targeting
specific users.footnote:3_10_5[https://resources.infosecinstitute.com/password-spraying/]
____

== Inform the shop about a leaked API key

// TODO Add hints for "Leaked API Key" challenge

== Identify an unsafe product that was removed from the shop and inform the shop which ingredients are dangerous

Similar to
<<_dumpster_dive_the_internet_for_a_leaked_password_and_log_in_to_the_original_user_account_it_belongs_to,Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to>>
this challenge further highlights the risks from a lack of data loss
prevention.

* You must first identify the "unsafe product" which ist not available
any more in the shop.
* Solving the
xref:part2/injection.adoc#_order_the_christmas_special_offer_of_2014[Order the Christmas special offer of 2014]
challenge might give it to you as by-catch.
* The actual data you need to solve this challenge was leaked on the
same platform that was involved in
<<_dumpster_dive_the_internet_for_a_leaked_password_and_log_in_to_the_original_user_account_it_belongs_to,Dumpster dive the Internet for a leaked password and log in to the original user account it belongs to>>
* Google is a particularly good accomplice in this challenge.

== Log in with Amy's original user credentials

This challenge is similar to
xref:part2/broken-authentication.adoc#_log_in_with_the_administrators_user_credentials_without_previously_changing_them_or_applying_sql_injection[Log in with the administrators user credentials without previously changing them or applying SQL Injection]
in the sense that only using her original credentials will work as a
challenge solutions.

image::part2/amy_and_kif.jpg[Amy and Kif Kroker]

* As with so many other characters from
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0149460/[Futurama] this challenge is of
course about logging in as Amy from that show. In the picture above
you see her together with her alien husband Kif.
* The challenge description contains a few sentences which give away
some information how Amy decided to strengthen her password.
* Obviously, Amy - being a little dimwitted - did not put nearly enough
effort and creativity into the password selection process.

== Log in with MC SafeSearch's original user credentials

Another user login challenge where only the original password is
accepted as a solution. Employing SQL Injection or other attacks does
not count.

* MC SafeSearch is a rapper who produced the song
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y["Protect Ya' Passwordz"]
which explains password & sensitive data protection very nicely.
* After watching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y[the music video of this song],
you should agree that even ⭐⭐ is a slightly exaggerated difficulty
rating for this challenge.
+
image::part2/protect-ya-passwordz.jpg["Protect Ya Passwordz",link=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v59CX2DiX0Y]

== Determine the answer to John's security question

Who would have guessed that a simple walk in the park could lead to an
account compromise. People these days are not careful with what they
post online and are not aware of the possible consequences it can have
when people exploit that.

* Make use of tools that can inspect the metadata of images.
* Use this information to answer the security question of the John, who
enjoys hiking in the park.

== Access a misplaced SIEM signature file.

____
Security information and event management (SIEM) technology supports
threat detection and security incident response through the real-time
collection and historical analysis of security events from a wide
variety of event and contextual data sources. It also supports
compliance reporting and incident investigation through analysis of
historical data from these sources. The core capabilities of SIEM
technology are a broad scope of event collection and the ability to
correlate and analyze events across disparate sources.footnote:3_10_3[https://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/security-information-and-event-management-siem/]
____

The misplaced signature file is actually a rule file for
https://github.com/Neo23x0/sigma[Sigma], a generic signature format
for SIEM systems:

____
Sigma is a generic and open signature format that allows you to
describe relevant log events in a straight forward manner. The rule
format is very flexible, easy to write and applicable to any type of
log file. The main purpose of this project is to provide a structured
form in which researchers or analysts can describe their once
developed detection methods and make them shareable with others.

Sigma is for log files what Snort is for network traffic and YARA is
for files.footnote:3_10_4[https://github.com/Neo23x0/sigma#what-is-sigma]
____

* If you solved one of the other four file access challenges, you
already know where the SIEM signature file is located
* Simply reuse the trick that already worked for the files above

== Take over the wallet containing our official Soul Bound Token

// TODO Add hints for "NFT Takeover" challenge

== Reset Uvogin's password via the Forgot Password mechanism

With the amount of personal information that people tend to reveal
online, security questions are hardly reliable anymore.

* People often reuse aliases online. You might be able to find something
by looking online for Uvogin's name or slight variations of it based
on his unique writing habits
* You might be able to find some existing OSINT tools to help you in
this investigation

== Deprive the shop of earnings by downloading the blueprint for one of its products

Why waste money for a product when you can just as well get your hands
on its blueprint in order to make it yourself?

* The product you might want to give a closer look is the _OWASP Juice
Shop Logo (3D-printed)_
* For your inconvenience the blueprint was _not_ misplaced into the same
place like so many others forgotten files covered in this chapter

ℹ️ _If you are running the Juice Shop with a custom theme and product
inventory, the product to inspect will be a different one. The tooltip
on the Score Board will tell you which one to look into._

== Determine the answer to Emma's security question

It is also possible to determine where a picture was taken by looking at
visual clues within the image. A certain user has uploaded a picture of
his old workplace. Take a look at what his security question is and see
if you can find the answer by looking at his uploaded image.

* Look at visual clues to determine what company is shown in the picture
and use that to answer the security question.
