part1/customization.md, before:

# Customization

One of the core usage scenarios for OWASP Juice Shop is in employee
trainings in order to facilitating security awareness. With its not
entirely serious user roster and product inventory the application might
not be suited for all audiences alike.

In some particularly traditional domains or sonservative enterprises it
would be benefitial to have the demo application look and behave more
like an internal application.

OWASP Juice Shop can be customized in its product inventory and look &
feel to accomodate this requirement. It also allows to add an arbitrary
number of fake users to make demonstrations - particularly those of
`UNION-SQL` injection attacks - even more impressive. Furthermore the
Challenge solved!-notifications can be turned off in order to keep the
impression of a "real" application undisturbed.

## How to customize the application

The customization is powered by a YAML configuration file placed in
`/config`. To run a customized OWASP Juice Shop you need to:

1. Place your own `.yml` configuration file into `/config`
2. Set the environment variable `NODE_ENV` to the filename of your
   config without the `.yml` extension
   * On Windows: `set NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig`
   * On Linux: `export NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig`
3. Run `npm start`

You can also run a config directly in one command (on Linux) via
`NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig npm start`. By default the
`config/default.yml` config is used which generates the original OWASP
Juice Shop look & feel and inventory.Please note that it is not
necessary to run `npm install` after switching customization
configurations.

### Overriding `default.yml` in Docker container

In order to override the default configuration inside your Docker
container with one of the provided configs, you can pass in the
`NODE_ENV` environment variable with the `-e` parameter:

```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e "NODE_ENV=bodgeit"
```

In order to inject your own configuration, you can use `-v` to mount the
`default.yml` path inside the container to any config file on your
outside file system:

```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e "NODE_ENV=myConfig" -v /tmp/myConfig.yml:/juice-shop/config/myConfig.yml --name juice-shop bkimminich/juice-shop
```

## YAML configuration file

The YAML format for customizations is very straightforward. Below you
find its syntax along with an excerpt of the default settings.

* `server`
  * `port` to launch the server on. Defaults to `3000`
* `application`
  * `domain` used for all user email addresses. Defaults to
    `"juice-sh.op"`
  * `name` as shown in title and menu bar Defaults to `"OWASP Juice
    Shop"`
  * `logo` filename in `/app/public/images/` _or_ a URL of an image
    which will first be download to that folder and then used as a logo.
    Defaults to `"JuiceShop_Logo.png"`
  * `favicon` filename in `/app/public/` _or_ a URL of an image in
    `.ico` format which will first be download to that folder and then
    used as a favicon. Defaults to `"favicon_v2.ico"`
  * `numberOfRandomFakeUsers` represents the number of random user
    accounts to be created on top of the pre-defined ones (which are
    required for serveral challenges). Defaults to `0`, meaning no
    additional users are created.
  * `showChallengeSolvedNotifications` shows or hides all instant
    _"challenge solved"_-notifications. Recommended to set to `false`
    for awareness demos. Defaults to `true`.
  * `showCtfFlagsInNotifications` shows or hides the CTF flag codes in
    the _"challenge solved"_-notifications. Is ignored when
    `showChallengeSolvedNotifications` is set to `false`. Defaults to
    `false`.
  * `showGitHubRibbon` shows or hides the _"Fork me on GitHub"_ ribbon
    in the top-right corner. Defaults to `true`.
  * `showChallengeHints` shows or hides hints for each challenge on
    hovering over/clicking its _"unsolved"_ badge on the score board.
    Defaults to `true`.
  * `theme` the name of the [Bootswatch](https://bootswatch.com) theme
    used to render the UI. Defaults to `"slate"`
  * `twitterUrl` used as the Twitter link promising coupon codes on the
    _Your Basket_ screen. Defaults to
    `"https://twitter.com/owasp_juiceshop"`
  * `facebookUrl` used as the Facebook link promising coupon codes on
    the _Your Basket_ screen. Defaults to
    `"https://www.facebook.com/owasp.juiceshop"`
  * `recyclePage` custom elements on the _Request Recycling Box_ page
    * `topProductImage` filename in `/app/public/images/products` to use
      as the image on the top of the info column on the page. Defaults
      to `fruit_press.jpg`
    * `bottomProductImage` filename in `/app/public/images/products` to
      use as the image on the bottom of the info column on the page.
      Defaults to `apple_pressings.jpg`
* `products` list which, when specified, replaces **the entire list** of
  default products
  * `name` of the product (_mandatory_)
  * `description` of the product (_optional_). Defaults to a static
    placeholder text
  * `price` of the product (_optional_). Defaults to a random price
  * `image` (_optional_) filename in `/app/public/images/products` _or_
    URL of an image to download to that folder and then use as a product
    image. Defaults to `undefined.png`
  * `deletedDate` of the product in `YYYY-MM-DD` format (_optional_).
    Defaults to `null`.
  * `useForProductTamperingChallenge` marks a product as the target for
    [the "product tampering" challenge](../part2/privilege-escalation.md#change-the-href-of-the-link-within-the-o-saft-product-description).
    Overrides `deletedDate` with `null` (_must be `true` on exactly one
    product_)
  * `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge` marks a product as the target for
    [the "christmas special" challenge](../part2/sqli.md#order-the-christmas-special-offer-of-2014).
    Overrides `deletedDate` with `2014-12-27` (_must be `true` on
    exactly one product_)
  * `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` (:warning:_optional on exactly
    one product_) filename in `/app/public/images/products` _or_ URL of
    a file download to that folder and then use as the target for the
    [Retrieve Blueprint](../part2/forgotten-content.md#deprive-the-shop-of-earnings-by-downloading-the-blueprint-for-one-of-its-products)
    challenge. To make this challenge solvable, include some kind of
    hint to the blueprint file's name/type in the product image (e.g.
    its `Exif` metadata) or in the product description. Defaults to
    :warning: `JuiceShop.stl`

> :warning: Please be aware that `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge`
> will become _**mandatory** on exactly one product_ and the fallback to
> `JuiceShop.stl` will be **deactivated** with Juice Shop v5.0!

### Configuration example

```yaml
server:
  port: 3000
application:
  domain: "juice-sh.op"
  name: "OWASP Juice Shop"
  logo: "JuiceShop_Logo.png"
  favicon: "favicon_v2.ico"
  numberOfRandomFakeUsers: 0
  showChallengeSolvedNotifications: true
  showCtfFlagsInNotifications: false
  showGitHubRibbon: true
  showChallengeHints: true
  theme: "slate"
  twitterUrl: "https://twitter.com/owasp_juiceshop"
  facebookUrl: "https://www.facebook.com/owasp.juiceshop"
  recyclePage:
    topProductImage: fruit_press.jpg
    bottomProductImage: apple_pressings.jpg
products:
  - name: "Apple Juice (1000ml)"
    price: 1.99
    description: "The all-time classic."
    image: "apple_juice.jpg"
# ~~~~~ ... ~~~~~~
  - name: 'OWASP Juice Shop Sticker (2015/2016 design)'
    description: 'Die-cut sticker with the official 2015/2016 logo...'
    price: 999.99
    image: 'sticker.png'
    deletedDate: 2017-04-28
  - name: 'OWASP SSL Advanced Forensic Tool (O-Saft)'
    description: 'O-Saft is an easy to use tool to show information...'
    price: 0.01
    image: 'owasp_osaft.jpg'
    useForProductTamperingChallenge: true
  - name: 'Christmas Super-Surprise-Box (2014 Edition)'
    description: 'Contains a random selection of 10 bottles...'
    price: 29.99
    image: 'undefined.jpg'
    useForChristmasSpecialChallenge: true
  - name: 'OWASP Juice Shop Logo (3D-printed)'
    description: 'This rare item was designed and handcrafted in Sweden...'
    price: 99.99
    image: '3d_keychain.jpg' # Exif metadata contains "OpenSCAD" as subtle hint...
    fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge: 'JuiceShop.stl' # ...to blueprint file type
# ~~~~~ ... ~~~~~~
```

### Overriding default settings

When creating your own YAML configuration file, you can rely on the
existing default values and only overwrite what you want to change. The
provided `config/ctf.yml` file for capture-the-flag events for example
is as short as this:

```yaml
application:
  logo: "JuiceShopCTF_Logo.png"
  favicon: "favicon_ctf.ico"
  showCtfFlagsInNotifications: true
  showGitHubRibbon: false
```

### Testing customizations

To verify if your custom configuration will not break any of the
challenges, you should run the end-to-end tests via `npm run
protractor`. If they pass, all challenges will be working fine!

## Provided customizations

The following three customizations are provided out of the box by OWASP
Juice Shop:
* [The BodgeIt Store](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/bodgeit.yml):
  An homage to
  [our server-side rendered ancestor](https://github.com/psiinon/bodgeit)
* [Sick-Shop](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/sickshop.yml):
  A store that offers a variety of illnesses. _Achoo!_ Bless you!
* [CTF-mode](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/ctf.yml):
  Keeps the Juice Shop in its default layout but disabled hints while
  enabling CTF flag codes in the _"challenge solved"_-notifications.
  Refer to [Hosting a CTF event](ctf.md) to learn more about running a
  CTF-event with OWASP Juice Shop.
* [Quiet mode](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/quiet.yml):
  Keeps the Juice Shop in its default layout but hides all _"challenge
  solved"_-notifications, GitHub ribbon and challenge hints.
* [OWASP Juice Box](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/juicebox.yml):
  If you find _jo͞osbäks_ much easier to pronounce than _jo͞osSHäp_,
  this customization is for you.

Commit message:

Clarify how blueprint file config works (i.e. that the file does not really have to exist)

part1/customization.md, after:

# Customization

One of the core usage scenarios for OWASP Juice Shop is in employee
trainings in order to facilitating security awareness. With its not
entirely serious user roster and product inventory the application might
not be suited for all audiences alike.

In some particularly traditional domains or sonservative enterprises it
would be benefitial to have the demo application look and behave more
like an internal application.

OWASP Juice Shop can be customized in its product inventory and look &
feel to accomodate this requirement. It also allows to add an arbitrary
number of fake users to make demonstrations - particularly those of
`UNION-SQL` injection attacks - even more impressive. Furthermore the
Challenge solved!-notifications can be turned off in order to keep the
impression of a "real" application undisturbed.

## How to customize the application

The customization is powered by a YAML configuration file placed in
`/config`. To run a customized OWASP Juice Shop you need to:

1. Place your own `.yml` configuration file into `/config`
2. Set the environment variable `NODE_ENV` to the filename of your
   config without the `.yml` extension
   * On Windows: `set NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig`
   * On Linux: `export NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig`
3. Run `npm start`

You can also run a config directly in one command (on Linux) via
`NODE_ENV=nameOfYourConfig npm start`. By default the
`config/default.yml` config is used which generates the original OWASP
Juice Shop look & feel and inventory.Please note that it is not
necessary to run `npm install` after switching customization
configurations.

### Overriding `default.yml` in Docker container

In order to override the default configuration inside your Docker
container with one of the provided configs, you can pass in the
`NODE_ENV` environment variable with the `-e` parameter:

```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e "NODE_ENV=bodgeit"
```

In order to inject your own configuration, you can use `-v` to mount the
`default.yml` path inside the container to any config file on your
outside file system:

```
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e "NODE_ENV=myConfig" -v /tmp/myConfig.yml:/juice-shop/config/myConfig.yml --name juice-shop bkimminich/juice-shop
```

## YAML configuration file

The YAML format for customizations is very straightforward. Below you
find its syntax along with an excerpt of the default settings.

* `server`
  * `port` to launch the server on. Defaults to `3000`
* `application`
  * `domain` used for all user email addresses. Defaults to
    `"juice-sh.op"`
  * `name` as shown in title and menu bar Defaults to `"OWASP Juice
    Shop"`
  * `logo` filename in `/app/public/images/` _or_ a URL of an image
    which will first be download to that folder and then used as a logo.
    Defaults to `"JuiceShop_Logo.png"`
  * `favicon` filename in `/app/public/` _or_ a URL of an image in
    `.ico` format which will first be download to that folder and then
    used as a favicon. Defaults to `"favicon_v2.ico"`
  * `numberOfRandomFakeUsers` represents the number of random user
    accounts to be created on top of the pre-defined ones (which are
    required for serveral challenges). Defaults to `0`, meaning no
    additional users are created.
  * `showChallengeSolvedNotifications` shows or hides all instant
    _"challenge solved"_-notifications. Recommended to set to `false`
    for awareness demos. Defaults to `true`.
  * `showCtfFlagsInNotifications` shows or hides the CTF flag codes in
    the _"challenge solved"_-notifications. Is ignored when
    `showChallengeSolvedNotifications` is set to `false`. Defaults to
    `false`.
  * `showGitHubRibbon` shows or hides the _"Fork me on GitHub"_ ribbon
    in the top-right corner. Defaults to `true`.
  * `showChallengeHints` shows or hides hints for each challenge on
    hovering over/clicking its _"unsolved"_ badge on the score board.
    Defaults to `true`.
  * `theme` the name of the [Bootswatch](https://bootswatch.com) theme
    used to render the UI. Defaults to `"slate"`
  * `twitterUrl` used as the Twitter link promising coupon codes on the
    _Your Basket_ screen. Defaults to
    `"https://twitter.com/owasp_juiceshop"`
  * `facebookUrl` used as the Facebook link promising coupon codes on
    the _Your Basket_ screen. Defaults to
    `"https://www.facebook.com/owasp.juiceshop"`
  * `recyclePage` custom elements on the _Request Recycling Box_ page
    * `topProductImage` filename in `/app/public/images/products` to use
      as the image on the top of the info column on the page. Defaults
      to `fruit_press.jpg`
    * `bottomProductImage` filename in `/app/public/images/products` to
      use as the image on the bottom of the info column on the page.
      Defaults to `apple_pressings.jpg`
* `products` list which, when specified, replaces **the entire list** of
  default products
  * `name` of the product (_mandatory_)
  * `description` of the product (_optional_). Defaults to a static
    placeholder text
  * `price` of the product (_optional_). Defaults to a random price
  * `image` (_optional_) filename in `/app/public/images/products` _or_
    URL of an image to download to that folder and then use as a product
    image. Defaults to `undefined.png`
  * `deletedDate` of the product in `YYYY-MM-DD` format (_optional_).
    Defaults to `null`.
  * `useForProductTamperingChallenge` marks a product as the target for
    [the "product tampering" challenge](../part2/privilege-escalation.md#change-the-href-of-the-link-within-the-o-saft-product-description).
    Overrides `deletedDate` with `null` (_must be `true` on exactly one
    product_)
  * `useForChristmasSpecialChallenge` marks a product as the target for
    [the "christmas special" challenge](../part2/sqli.md#order-the-christmas-special-offer-of-2014).
    Overrides `deletedDate` with `2014-12-27` (_must be `true` on
    exactly one product_)
  * `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge` (:warning:_optional on exactly
    one product_) filename in `/app/public/images/products` _or_ URL of
    a file download to that folder and then use as the target for the
    [Retrieve Blueprint](../part2/forgotten-content.md#deprive-the-shop-of-earnings-by-downloading-the-blueprint-for-one-of-its-products)
    challenge. If a filename is specified but the file does not exist in
    `/app/public/images/products` the challenge is still solvable by
    just requesting it from the server. Defaults to :warning:
    `JuiceShop.stl`. _**Important note:** To make this challenge
    realistically solvable, include some kind of hint to the blueprint
    file's name/type in the product image (e.g. its `Exif` metadata) or
    in the product description_

> :warning: Please be aware that `fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge`
> will become _**mandatory** on exactly one product_ and the fallback to
> `JuiceShop.stl` will be **deactivated** with Juice Shop v5.0!

### Configuration example

```yaml
server:
  port: 3000
application:
  domain: "juice-sh.op"
  name: "OWASP Juice Shop"
  logo: "JuiceShop_Logo.png"
  favicon: "favicon_v2.ico"
  numberOfRandomFakeUsers: 0
  showChallengeSolvedNotifications: true
  showCtfFlagsInNotifications: false
  showGitHubRibbon: true
  showChallengeHints: true
  theme: "slate"
  twitterUrl: "https://twitter.com/owasp_juiceshop"
  facebookUrl: "https://www.facebook.com/owasp.juiceshop"
  recyclePage:
    topProductImage: fruit_press.jpg
    bottomProductImage: apple_pressings.jpg
products:
  - name: "Apple Juice (1000ml)"
    price: 1.99
    description: "The all-time classic."
    image: "apple_juice.jpg"
# ~~~~~ ... ~~~~~~
  - name: 'OWASP Juice Shop Sticker (2015/2016 design)'
    description: 'Die-cut sticker with the official 2015/2016 logo...'
    price: 999.99
    image: 'sticker.png'
    deletedDate: 2017-04-28
  - name: 'OWASP SSL Advanced Forensic Tool (O-Saft)'
    description: 'O-Saft is an easy to use tool to show information...'
    price: 0.01
    image: 'owasp_osaft.jpg'
    useForProductTamperingChallenge: true
  - name: 'Christmas Super-Surprise-Box (2014 Edition)'
    description: 'Contains a random selection of 10 bottles...'
    price: 29.99
    image: 'undefined.jpg'
    useForChristmasSpecialChallenge: true
  - name: 'OWASP Juice Shop Logo (3D-printed)'
    description: 'This rare item was designed and handcrafted in Sweden...'
    price: 99.99
    image: '3d_keychain.jpg' # Exif metadata contains "OpenSCAD" as subtle hint...
    fileForRetrieveBlueprintChallenge: 'JuiceShop.stl' # ...to blueprint file type
# ~~~~~ ... ~~~~~~
```

### Overriding default settings

When creating your own YAML configuration file, you can rely on the
existing default values and only overwrite what you want to change. The
provided `config/ctf.yml` file for capture-the-flag events for example
is as short as this:

```yaml
application:
  logo: "JuiceShopCTF_Logo.png"
  favicon: "favicon_ctf.ico"
  showCtfFlagsInNotifications: true
  showGitHubRibbon: false
```

### Testing customizations

To verify if your custom configuration will not break any of the
challenges, you should run the end-to-end tests via `npm run
protractor`. If they pass, all challenges will be working fine!

## Provided customizations

The following three customizations are provided out of the box by OWASP
Juice Shop:
* [The BodgeIt Store](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/bodgeit.yml):
  An homage to
  [our server-side rendered ancestor](https://github.com/psiinon/bodgeit)
* [Sick-Shop](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/sickshop.yml):
  A store that offers a variety of illnesses. _Achoo!_ Bless you!
* [CTF-mode](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/ctf.yml):
  Keeps the Juice Shop in its default layout but disabled hints while
  enabling CTF flag codes in the _"challenge solved"_-notifications.
  Refer to [Hosting a CTF event](ctf.md) to learn more about running a
  CTF-event with OWASP Juice Shop.
* [Quiet mode](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/quiet.yml):
  Keeps the Juice Shop in its default layout but hides all _"challenge
  solved"_-notifications, GitHub ribbon and challenge hints.
* [OWASP Juice Box](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/blob/master/config/juicebox.yml):
  If you find _jo͞osbäks_ much easier to pronounce than _jo͞osSHäp_,
  this customization is for you.
