part1/running.md, before:

# Running OWASP Juice Shop

## Run options

In the following sections you find step-by-step instructions to deploy a
running instance of OWASP Juice Shop for your personal hacking
endeavours.

### One-click cloud instance

!["Deploy to Heroku" button](img/deploy-to-heroku.svg)

The quickest way to get a running instance of Juice Shop is to click the
_Deploy to Heroku_ button in the
[_Setup_ section of the `README.md` on GitHub](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop#deploy-on-heroku-free-0month-dyno).
You have to log in with your Heroku account and will then receive a
single instance (or _dyno_ in Heroku lingo) hosting the application. If
you have forked the Juice Shop repository on GitHub, the _Deploy to
Heroku_ button will deploy your forked version of the application. To
deploy the latest official version you must use the button of the
original repository at https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.

As the Juice Shop is supposed to be hacked and attacked - maybe even
with aggressive brute-force scripts or automated scanner software - one
might think that Heroku would not allow such activities on their cloud
platform. Quite the opposite! When describing the intended use of Juice
Shop to the Heroku support team they answered with:

> That sounds like a great idea. So long as you aren't asking people to
> DDoS it that should be fine. People are certainly welcome to try their
> luck against the platform and your app so long as it's not DDoS.

As a little related anecdote, the OWASP Juice Shop was even crowned
[Heroku Button of the Month in November 2017](https://hello.heroku.com/webmail/36622/679286305/8049a634b1a01b0aa75c0966325856dc9a463b7f1beeb6a2f32cbb30248b5bc6):

!["Heroku Button of the Month" November 2017](img/heroku-button-of-the-month.png)

### Local installation

To run the Juice Shop locally you need to have
[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) installed on your computer. The Juice Shop
offically runs on versions {{book.nodeVersions}} of Node.js, closely
following the official
[Node.js Long-term Support Release Schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/LTS).
During development and Continuous Integration (CI) the application is
automatically tested with these current versions of Node.js. The
officially recommended version to run Juice Shop is either the most
recent _Long-term Support (LTS)_ version or the _Current Release_
version. Therefor Juice Shop recommends Node.js
{{book.recommendedNodeVersion}} for its own {{book.juiceShopVersion}}
release.

#### From sources

1. Install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) on your computer.
2. On the command line run `git clone
   https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.git`.
3. Go into the cloned folder with `cd juice-shop`
4. Run `npm install`. This only has to be done before the first start or
   after you changed the source code.
5. Run `npm start` to launch the application.
6. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>

#### From pre-packaged distribution

1. Install a 64bit [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) on your Windows or
   Linux machine.
2. Download `juice-shop-<version>_<node-version>_<os>_x64.zip` (or
   `.tgz`) attached to the
   [latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/releases/latest).
3. Unpack the archive and run `npm start` in unpacked folder to launch
   the application
4. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>

### Docker image

You need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed to run
Juice Shop as a container inside it. Following the instructions below
will download the current stable version (built from `master` branch on
GitHub) which internally runs the application on the currently
recommended Node.js version {{book.recommendedNodeVersion}}.

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) on your computer.
2. On the command line run `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop` to
   download the `latest` image described above.
3. Run `docker run -d -p 3000:3000 bkimminich/juice-shop` to launch the
   container with that image.
4. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>.

If you are using Docker on Windows - inside a VirtualBox VM - make sure
that you also enable port forwarding from host `127.0.0.1:3000` to
`0.0.0.0:3000` for TCP.

### Vagrant

Vagrant is an open-source solution for building and maintaining virtual
software development environments. It creates a Virtualbox VM that will
launch a Docker container instance of the `latest` Juice Shop image
`{{book.juiceShopVersion}}`.

1. Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) and
   [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
2. Run `git clone https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.git` (or
   clone [your own fork](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/fork)
   of the repository)
3. Run `cd vagrant && vagrant up`
4. Browse to [192.168.33.10](http://192.168.33.10)

### Amazon EC2 Instance

You need to have an account at
[Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com) in order to create a
server hosting the Juice Shop there.

1. Setup an _Amazon Linux AMI_ instance
2. In _Step 3: Configure Instance Details_ unfold _Advanced Details_ and
   copy the script below into _User Data_
3. In _Step 6: Configure Security Group_ add a _Rule_ that opens port 80
   for HTTP
4. Launch instance
5. Browse to your instance's public DNS

```bash
#!/bin/bash
yum update -y
yum install -y docker
service docker start
docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop
docker run -d -p 80:3000 bkimminich/juice-shop
```

### Azure Web App for Containers

1. Open your [Azure CLI](https://azure.github.io/projects/clis/) **or**
   login to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), open the
   _CloudShell_ and then choose _Bash_ (not PowerShell).
2. Create a resource group by running `az group create --name <group
   name> --location <location name, e.g. "East US">`
3. Create an app service plan by running `az appservice plan create
   --name <plan name> --resource-group <group name> --sku S1 --is-linux`
4. Create a web app with the
   [Juice Shop Docker](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/bkimminich/juice-shop/)
   image by running the following (on one line in the bash shell) `az
   webapp create --resource-group <group name> --plan <plan name> `
   `--name <app name> --deployment-container-image-name
   bkimminich/juice-shop`

## _Self-healing_-feature

OWASP Juice Shop was not exactly designed and built with a high
availability and reactive enterprise-scale architecture in mind. It runs
perfectly fine and fast when it is attacked via a browser by a human.
When under attack by an automated tool - especially aggressive brute
force scripts - the server might crash under the load. This could - in
theory - leave the database and file system in an unpredictable state
that prevents a restart of the application.

That is why - in practice - Juice Shop wipes the entire database and the
folder users might have modified during hacking. After performing this
_self-healing_ the application is supposed to be restartable, no matter
what kind of problem originally caused it to crash. For convenience the
_self-healing_ happens during the start-up (i.e. `npm start`) of the
server, so no extra command needs to be issued to trigger it.

## Single-user restriction

There is one fundamental restriction that needs to be taken into account
when working with the OWASP Juice Shop, especially in group trainings or
lectures:

**A server instance of OWASP Juice Shop is supposed to be used by only a
single-user!**

This restriction applies to all the [Run Options](#run-options)
explained above. It is technically necessary to make the
[_Self-healing_-feature](#self-healing-feature) work properly and
consistently. Furthermore, when multiple users would attack the same
instance of the Juice Shop all their progress tracking would be mixed
leading to inevitable confusion for the individual hacker. The upcoming
[Challenge tracking](challenges.md) chapter will illustrate this topic.

It should not go unmentioned that it is of course okay to have multiple
users hack the same instance from a shared machine in a kind of
_pair-hacking_-style.

Commit message:

Add instruction to install specific release

part1/running.md, after:

# Running OWASP Juice Shop

## Run options

In the following sections you find step-by-step instructions to deploy a
running instance of OWASP Juice Shop for your personal hacking
endeavours.

### One-click cloud instance

!["Deploy to Heroku" button](img/deploy-to-heroku.svg)

The quickest way to get a running instance of Juice Shop is to click the
_Deploy to Heroku_ button in the
[_Setup_ section of the `README.md` on GitHub](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop#deploy-on-heroku-free-0month-dyno).
You have to log in with your Heroku account and will then receive a
single instance (or _dyno_ in Heroku lingo) hosting the application. If
you have forked the Juice Shop repository on GitHub, the _Deploy to
Heroku_ button will deploy your forked version of the application. To
deploy the latest official version you must use the button of the
original repository at https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.

As the Juice Shop is supposed to be hacked and attacked - maybe even
with aggressive brute-force scripts or automated scanner software - one
might think that Heroku would not allow such activities on their cloud
platform. Quite the opposite! When describing the intended use of Juice
Shop to the Heroku support team they answered with:

> That sounds like a great idea. So long as you aren't asking people to
> DDoS it that should be fine. People are certainly welcome to try their
> luck against the platform and your app so long as it's not DDoS.

As a little related anecdote, the OWASP Juice Shop was even crowned
[Heroku Button of the Month in November 2017](https://hello.heroku.com/webmail/36622/679286305/8049a634b1a01b0aa75c0966325856dc9a463b7f1beeb6a2f32cbb30248b5bc6):

!["Heroku Button of the Month" November 2017](img/heroku-button-of-the-month.png)

### Local installation

To run the Juice Shop locally you need to have
[Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) installed on your computer. The Juice Shop
offically runs on versions {{book.nodeVersions}} of Node.js, closely
following the official
[Node.js Long-term Support Release Schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/LTS).
During development and Continuous Integration (CI) the application is
automatically tested with these current versions of Node.js. The
officially recommended version to run Juice Shop is either the most
recent _Long-term Support (LTS)_ version or the _Current Release_
version. Therefor Juice Shop recommends Node.js
{{book.recommendedNodeVersion}} for its own {{book.juiceShopVersion}}
release.

#### From sources

1. Install [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) on your computer.
2. On the command line run `git clone
   https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.git`.
3. Go into the cloned folder with `cd juice-shop`
4. Run `npm install`. This only has to be done before the first start or
   after you changed the source code.
5. Run `npm start` to launch the application.
6. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>

#### From pre-packaged distribution

1. Install a 64bit [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) on your Windows or
   Linux machine.
2. Download `juice-shop-<version>_<node-version>_<os>_x64.zip` (or
   `.tgz`) attached to the
   [latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/releases/latest).
3. Unpack the archive and run `npm start` in unpacked folder to launch
   the application
4. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>

### Docker image

You need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed to run
Juice Shop as a container inside it. Following the instructions below
will download the current stable version (built from `master` branch on
GitHub) which internally runs the application on the currently
recommended Node.js version {{book.recommendedNodeVersion}}.

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) on your computer.
2. On the command line run `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop` to
   download the `latest` image described above.
3. Run `docker run -d -p 3000:3000 bkimminich/juice-shop` to launch the
   container with that image.
4. Browse to <http://localhost:3000>.

If you are using Docker on Windows - inside a VirtualBox VM - make sure
that you also enable port forwarding from host `127.0.0.1:3000` to
`0.0.0.0:3000` for TCP.

### Vagrant

Vagrant is an open-source solution for building and maintaining virtual
software development environments. It creates a Virtualbox VM that will
launch a Docker container instance of the `latest` Juice Shop image
`{{book.juiceShopVersion}}`.

1. Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html) and
   [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
2. Run `git clone https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop.git` (or
   clone [your own fork](https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/fork)
   of the repository)
3. Run `cd vagrant && vagrant up`
4. Browse to [192.168.33.10](http://192.168.33.10)

### Amazon EC2 Instance

You need to have an account at
[Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com) in order to create a
server hosting the Juice Shop there.

1. Setup an _Amazon Linux AMI_ instance
2. In _Step 3: Configure Instance Details_ unfold _Advanced Details_ and
   copy the script below into _User Data_
3. In _Step 6: Configure Security Group_ add a _Rule_ that opens port 80
   for HTTP
4. Launch instance
5. Browse to your instance's public DNS

```bash
#!/bin/bash
yum update -y
yum install -y docker
service docker start
docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop
docker run -d -p 80:3000 bkimminich/juice-shop
```

### Azure Web App for Containers

1. Open your [Azure CLI](https://azure.github.io/projects/clis/) **or**
   login to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com), open the
   _CloudShell_ and then choose _Bash_ (not PowerShell).
2. Create a resource group by running `az group create --name <group
   name> --location <location name, e.g. "East US">`
3. Create an app service plan by running `az appservice plan create
   --name <plan name> --resource-group <group name> --sku S1 --is-linux`
4. Create a web app with the
   [Juice Shop Docker](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/bkimminich/juice-shop/)
   image by running the following (on one line in the bash shell) `az
   webapp create --resource-group <group name> --plan <plan name> `
   `--name <app name> --deployment-container-image-name
   bkimminich/juice-shop`

## Installing a specific release version

The installation instructions above will all give you the latest official release version of the Juice Shop. If you want to install a specific older version, you can easily do so by retrieving the corresponding tag from GitHub or Docker. For release v7.5.1 - which was the last version with the original AgularJS/Bootstrap frontend - for example:

* [From sources](#from-sources) - Run `git fetch --tags` and then `git checkout v7.5.1` before running `npm install`
* [Docker image](#docker-image) - Run `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop:v7.5.1` instead of the usual `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop`
* [From pre-packaged distribution](#from-pre-packaged-distribution) - Just download the older release from <https://github.com/bkimminich/juice-shop/releases> or <https://sourceforge.net/projects/juice-shop/files/>

To experience a preview of the next upcoming Juice Shop version you can do as follows:

* Simply visit <https://juice-shop-staging.herokuapp.com> and take a look
* [From sources](#from-sources) - Run `git fetch` and then `git checkout develop` before running `npm install`
* [Docker image](#docker-image) - Run `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop:snapshot` instead of the usual `docker pull bkimminich/juice-shop`

:information_source: Please be aware that support by the core team or community is limited (at best) for outdated and unreleased versions alike. To fully enjoy your OWASP Juice Shop experience, it is recommended to always use the latest version.

## _Self-healing_-feature

OWASP Juice Shop was not exactly designed and built with a high
availability and reactive enterprise-scale architecture in mind. It runs
perfectly fine and fast when it is attacked via a browser by a human.
When under attack by an automated tool - especially aggressive brute
force scripts - the server might crash under the load. This could - in
theory - leave the database and file system in an unpredictable state
that prevents a restart of the application.

That is why - in practice - Juice Shop wipes the entire database and the
folder users might have modified during hacking. After performing this
_self-healing_ the application is supposed to be restartable, no matter
what kind of problem originally caused it to crash. For convenience the
_self-healing_ happens during the start-up (i.e. `npm start`) of the
server, so no extra command needs to be issued to trigger it.

## Single-user restriction

There is one fundamental restriction that needs to be taken into account
when working with the OWASP Juice Shop, especially in group trainings or
lectures:

**A server instance of OWASP Juice Shop is supposed to be used by only a
single-user!**

This restriction applies to all the [Run Options](#run-options)
explained above. It is technically necessary to make the
[_Self-healing_-feature](#self-healing-feature) work properly and
consistently. Furthermore, when multiple users would attack the same
instance of the Juice Shop all their progress tracking would be mixed
leading to inevitable confusion for the individual hacker. The upcoming
[Challenge tracking](challenges.md) chapter will illustrate this topic.

It should not go unmentioned that it is of course okay to have multiple
users hack the same instance from a shared machine in a kind of
_pair-hacking_-style.
