appendix/code-snippets.md, before:

# Vulnerable code snippets

Starting with `v12.7.0`, Juice Shop allows associating vulnerable code
snippets with hacking challenges. These will be displayed on the Score
Board with the click of a button
[as briefly illustrated in Part 1 of this book](../part1/challenges.md#vulnerable-code-snippets).

To outfit new challenges with such a code snippet, some conditions must
be met, and a certain syntax for marking the code snippet have to be
used.

## Supported source files

Juice Shop will perform a lookup for code snippets in these source files
or folders:

```
./server.ts
./routes
./lib
./data
./frontend/src/app
```

These are equally available when cloning the source code repo, running
the official Docker image or unpacking an official pre-packaged archive.

## `vuln-code-snippet` marker comments

All marker comments relevant for the code snippet processing start with
the `vuln-code-snippet` prefix followed by the type of marker, often
followed by the challenge key(s) the marker should be applied to.

| Marker Type  | Challenge Key(s) | Description                                                                                                            | Example                                                              |
|:-------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `start`      | Yes              | Beginning of a snippet for one or more challenges.                                                                     | `// vuln-code-snippet start localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge`     |
| `end`        | Yes              | End of a snippet for one or more challenges.                                                                           | `// vuln-code-snippet end localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge`       |
| `vuln-line`  | Yes              | Vulnerable code line for one or more challenges. Can appear multiple times within a corresponding `start`-`end` block. | `// vuln-code-snippet vuln-line localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge` |
| `hide-line`  | No               | That particular line will be removed from all code snippets.                                                           | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-line`                                     |
| `hide-start` | No               | Beginning of a block that will be removed from all code snippets.                                                      | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-start`                                    |
| `hide-end`   | No               | End of a block that will be removed from all code snippets.                                                            | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-end`                                      |

Code snippet markers are recognized in any files as long as they support
a leading `//` or `#` for a single-line comment. This makes them usable
in TypeScript, JavaScript and YAML files, but not in HTML. Code markers
are only found in files residing in one of the above-mentioned folders.

### Complete examples

#### TypeScript

The following code shows markers for two challenges with the same
vulnerable line, and a hidden code block:

```typescript
// vuln-code-snippet start localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
filterTable () {
let queryParam: string = this.route.snapshot.queryParams.q
if (queryParam) {
  queryParam = queryParam.trim()
  this.ngZone.runOutsideAngular(() => { // vuln-code-snippet hide-start
    this.io.socket().emit('verifyLocalXssChallenge', queryParam)
  }) // vuln-code-snippet hide-end
  this.dataSource.filter = queryParam.toLowerCase()
  this.searchValue = this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(queryParam) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
  this.gridDataSource.subscribe((result: any) => {
    if (result.length === 0) {
      this.emptyState = true
    } else {
      this.emptyState = false
    }
  })
} else {
  this.dataSource.filter = ''
  this.searchValue = undefined
  this.emptyState = false
}
}
// vuln-code-snippet end localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
```

The next example explains how to mark one challenge with two vulnerable
lines, and some individually hidden lines:

```typescript
// vuln-code-snippet start fileWriteChallenge
function handleZipFileUpload ({ file }, res, next) {
  if (utils.endsWith(file.originalname.toLowerCase(), '.zip')) {
    if (file.buffer && !utils.disableOnContainerEnv()) { // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
      const buffer = file.buffer
      const filename = file.originalname.toLowerCase()
      const tempFile = path.join(os.tmpdir(), filename)
      fs.open(tempFile, 'w', function (err, fd) {
        if (err != null) { next(err) }
        fs.write(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, null, function (err) {
          if (err != null) { next(err) }
          fs.close(fd, function () {
            fs.createReadStream(tempFile)
              .pipe(unzipper.Parse()) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line fileWriteChallenge
              .on('entry', function (entry) {
                const fileName = entry.path
                const absolutePath = path.resolve('uploads/complaints/' + fileName)
                utils.solveIf(challenges.fileWriteChallenge, () => { return absolutePath === path.resolve('ftp/legal.md') }) // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
                if (absolutePath.includes(path.resolve('.'))) {
                  entry.pipe(fs.createWriteStream('uploads/complaints/' + fileName).on('error', function (err) { next(err) })) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line fileWriteChallenge
                } else {
                  entry.autodrain()
                }
              }).on('error', function (err) { next(err) })
          })
        })
      })
    } // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
    res.status(204).end()
  } else {
    next()
  }
}
// vuln-code-snippet end fileWriteChallenge
```

#### YAML

In this example, multiple challenges are defined in a shared code block
but each with their own vulnerable line:

```yaml
# vuln-code-snippet start resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge resetPasswordBjoernChallenge resetPasswordJimChallenge resetPasswordBenderChallenge resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
-
  question: 'Your eldest siblings middle name?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordJimChallenge
-
  question: "Mother's maiden name?"
-
  question: "Mother's birth date? (MM/DD/YY)"
-
  question: "Father's birth date? (MM/DD/YY)"
-
  question: "Maternal grandmother's first name?"
-
  question: "Paternal grandmother's first name?"
-
  question: 'Name of your favorite pet?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge
-
  question: "Last name of dentist when you were a teenager? (Do not include 'Dr.')"
-
  question: 'Your ZIP/postal code when you were a teenager?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBjoernChallenge
-
  question: 'Company you first work for as an adult?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBenderChallenge
-
  question: 'Your favorite book?'
-
  question: 'Your favorite movie?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
-
  question: 'Number of one of your customer or ID cards?'
-
  question: "What's your favorite place to go hiking?"
# vuln-code-snippet end resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge resetPasswordBjoernChallenge resetPasswordJimChallenge resetPasswordBenderChallenge resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
```

### Overlapping markers

After a code snippet has been retrieved and processed, all "dangling"
markers inside starting with `vuln-code-snippet` will be removed. This
allows to have overlapping `start` and `end` blocks for different
challenges that might share some but not all code.

## REST endpoints

The Score Board retrieves the actual code snippets via two REST
endpoints:

* `/snippets` returns the list of all challenge keys where code snippets
  are available in JSON format (e.g.
  `{"challenges":["directoryListingChallenge",...,"xssBonusChallenge"]}`)
* `/snippets/<challengeKey>` returns the actual code snippet plus the
  list of vulnerable lines in JSON format (e.g. `{"snippet":"filterTable
  () {\n let queryParam: string = ... }\n }","vulnLines":[6]}`)

### Error handling

The following errors can occur when calling the REST endpoints:

| Endpoint                   | HTTP status code | Error                                                |
|:---------------------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `412`            | `Unknown challenge key: <challengeKey>`              |
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `404`            | `No code snippet available for: <challengeKey>`      |
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `422`            | `Broken code snippet boundaries for: <challengeKey>` |

### Real-time retrieval

As the code snippets are retrieved in real-time from the actual code
base, all changes to the marker syntax while the application is running
are immediately applied and can be tested by re-opening the particular
snippet from the Score Board. Newly added code snippets are similarly
recognized by reloading the Score Board page. No frontend complation or
server restart is required.

Commit message:

Extend code snippet docs to cover coding challenges

appendix/code-snippets.md, after:

# Coding challenges

Starting with `v12.9.0`, OWASP Juice Shop offers a new developer-focused challenge for
some of its existing hacking challenges: Coding challenges. These were [briefly illustrated in Part 1 of this book](../part1/challenges.md#coding-challenges)
from a user's perspective. This appendix explains how a coding challenge can be added
to newly created hacking challenges.

Each coding challenge consists of two phases:

1. **Find It** where the user is tasked to select vulnerable line(s) of code in an actual code snippet from Juice Shop
2. **Fix It** where the user is presented with 3-4 options to choose from to fix that vulnerability and has to decide which one would be the best

## Vulnerable code snippets

Juice Shop allows associating its own vulnerable code with its own hacking challenges. To outfit new challenges with
such a code snippet, some conditions must be met, and a certain syntax for marking the code snippet have to be used.

### Supported source files

Juice Shop will perform a lookup for code snippets in these source files
or folders:

```
./server.ts
./routes
./lib
./data
./frontend/src/app
```

These are equally available when cloning the source code repo, running
the official Docker image or unpacking an official pre-packaged archive.

## `vuln-code-snippet` marker comments

All marker comments relevant for the code snippet processing start with
the `vuln-code-snippet` prefix followed by the type of marker, often
followed by the challenge key(s) the marker should be applied to.

| Marker Type  | Challenge Key(s) | Description                                                                                                            | Example                                                              |
|:-------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `start`      | Yes              | Beginning of a snippet for one or more challenges.                                                                     | `// vuln-code-snippet start localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge`     |
| `end`        | Yes              | End of a snippet for one or more challenges.                                                                           | `// vuln-code-snippet end localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge`       |
| `vuln-line`  | Yes              | Vulnerable code line for one or more challenges. Can appear multiple times within a corresponding `start`-`end` block. | `// vuln-code-snippet vuln-line localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge` |
| `hide-line`  | No               | That particular line will be removed from all code snippets.                                                           | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-line`                                     |
| `hide-start` | No               | Beginning of a block that will be removed from all code snippets.                                                      | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-start`                                    |
| `hide-end`   | No               | End of a block that will be removed from all code snippets.                                                            | `// vuln-code-snippet hide-end`                                      |

Code snippet markers are recognized in any files as long as they support
a leading `//` or `#` for a single-line comment. This makes them usable
in TypeScript, JavaScript and YAML files, but not in HTML. Code markers
are only found in files residing in one of the above-mentioned folders.

#### Complete examples

##### TypeScript

The following code shows markers for two challenges with the same
vulnerable line, and a hidden code block:

```typescript
// vuln-code-snippet start localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
filterTable () {
let queryParam: string = this.route.snapshot.queryParams.q
if (queryParam) {
  queryParam = queryParam.trim()
  this.ngZone.runOutsideAngular(() => { // vuln-code-snippet hide-start
    this.io.socket().emit('verifyLocalXssChallenge', queryParam)
  }) // vuln-code-snippet hide-end
  this.dataSource.filter = queryParam.toLowerCase()
  this.searchValue = this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(queryParam) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
  this.gridDataSource.subscribe((result: any) => {
    if (result.length === 0) {
      this.emptyState = true
    } else {
      this.emptyState = false
    }
  })
} else {
  this.dataSource.filter = ''
  this.searchValue = undefined
  this.emptyState = false
}
}
// vuln-code-snippet end localXssChallenge xssBonusChallenge
```

The next example explains how to mark one challenge with two vulnerable
lines, and some individually hidden lines:

```typescript
// vuln-code-snippet start fileWriteChallenge
function handleZipFileUpload ({ file }, res, next) {
  if (utils.endsWith(file.originalname.toLowerCase(), '.zip')) {
    if (file.buffer && !utils.disableOnContainerEnv()) { // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
      const buffer = file.buffer
      const filename = file.originalname.toLowerCase()
      const tempFile = path.join(os.tmpdir(), filename)
      fs.open(tempFile, 'w', function (err, fd) {
        if (err != null) { next(err) }
        fs.write(fd, buffer, 0, buffer.length, null, function (err) {
          if (err != null) { next(err) }
          fs.close(fd, function () {
            fs.createReadStream(tempFile)
              .pipe(unzipper.Parse()) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line fileWriteChallenge
              .on('entry', function (entry) {
                const fileName = entry.path
                const absolutePath = path.resolve('uploads/complaints/' + fileName)
                utils.solveIf(challenges.fileWriteChallenge, () => { return absolutePath === path.resolve('ftp/legal.md') }) // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
                if (absolutePath.includes(path.resolve('.'))) {
                  entry.pipe(fs.createWriteStream('uploads/complaints/' + fileName).on('error', function (err) { next(err) })) // vuln-code-snippet vuln-line fileWriteChallenge
                } else {
                  entry.autodrain()
                }
              }).on('error', function (err) { next(err) })
          })
        })
      })
    } // vuln-code-snippet hide-line
    res.status(204).end()
  } else {
    next()
  }
}
// vuln-code-snippet end fileWriteChallenge
```

##### YAML

In this example, multiple challenges are defined in a shared code block
but each with their own vulnerable line:

```yaml
# vuln-code-snippet start resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge resetPasswordBjoernChallenge resetPasswordJimChallenge resetPasswordBenderChallenge resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
-
  question: 'Your eldest siblings middle name?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordJimChallenge
-
  question: "Mother's maiden name?"
-
  question: "Mother's birth date? (MM/DD/YY)"
-
  question: "Father's birth date? (MM/DD/YY)"
-
  question: "Maternal grandmother's first name?"
-
  question: "Paternal grandmother's first name?"
-
  question: 'Name of your favorite pet?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge
-
  question: "Last name of dentist when you were a teenager? (Do not include 'Dr.')"
-
  question: 'Your ZIP/postal code when you were a teenager?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBjoernChallenge
-
  question: 'Company you first work for as an adult?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordBenderChallenge
-
  question: 'Your favorite book?'
-
  question: 'Your favorite movie?' # vuln-code-snippet vuln-line resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
-
  question: 'Number of one of your customer or ID cards?'
-
  question: "What's your favorite place to go hiking?"
# vuln-code-snippet end resetPasswordBjoernOwaspChallenge resetPasswordBjoernChallenge resetPasswordJimChallenge resetPasswordBenderChallenge resetPasswordUvoginChallenge
```

#### Overlapping markers

After a code snippet has been retrieved and processed, all "dangling"
markers inside starting with `vuln-code-snippet` will be removed. This
allows to have overlapping `start` and `end` blocks for different
challenges that might share some but not all code.

### REST endpoints

The Score Board retrieves the actual code snippets via two REST
endpoints:

* `/snippets` returns the list of all challenge keys where code snippets
  are available in JSON format (e.g.
  `{"challenges":["directoryListingChallenge",...,"xssBonusChallenge"]}`)
* `/snippets/<challengeKey>` returns the actual code snippet plus the
  list of vulnerable lines in JSON format (e.g. `{"snippet":"filterTable
  () {\n let queryParam: string = ... }\n }","vulnLines":[6]}`)

#### Error handling

The following errors can occur when calling the REST endpoints:

| Endpoint                   | HTTP status code | Error                                                |
|:---------------------------|:-----------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `412`            | `Unknown challenge key: <challengeKey>`              |
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `404`            | `No code snippet available for: <challengeKey>`      |
| `/snippets/<challengeKey>` | `422`            | `Broken code snippet boundaries for: <challengeKey>` |

#### Real-time retrieval

As the code snippets are retrieved in real-time from the actual code
base, all changes to the marker syntax while the application is running
are immediately applied and can be tested by re-opening the particular
snippet from the Score Board. Newly added code snippets are similarly
recognized by reloading the Score Board page. No frontend complation or
server restart is required.

## Fix option files

🛠️ **TODO**
